#QUEST Holl_Gambit
The Dutch Gambit
#TEXT   1-1
My first assignment from a vice-director of the Company is to escort Balthazar Ridderbrock. I can find him in a harbour master's office.
#TEXT   1-2
I was too slow doing my mission and the merchant has sailed without me.
#TEXT   1-3
Balthazar Ridderbrock is my companion now. I am heading to Philipsburg.
#TEXT   1-4
I was too slow and the merchant decided to leave me and sail alone.
#TEXT   1-5
Balthazar Ridderbrock is dead. Mission is failed and I don't want to talk with Rodenburg about it.
#TEXT   1-6
It's done. Balthazar Ridderbrock has reached Philipsburg. I was paid 5000 pesos - Ridderbrock is an extremely generous man... Heading back to Willemstad.
#TEXT   1-7
Another mission from Lucas Rodenburg - to capture the 'Mirage', but first, I should kill her captain Jacob van Berg. Chinese Longway will assist me in this. He is a captain of xebec Meifeng, yet I was assigned to command her instead of him for some time.
#TEXT   1-8
The Meifeng and Longway are under my command. I should look for Jacob van Berg in @<sCity>, in the local tavern. Time to sail.
#TEXT   1-9
I was too slow and Longway has left my crew. Mission is completely failed.
#TEXT   1-10
I failed to capture the 'Mirage' without loosing the 'Meifeng'. Longway has left my crew. It's better to stay away from Rodenburg now...
#TEXT   1-11
Jacob van Berg is eliminated. I have also found a very interesting logbook. Turns out that van Berg was following someone's command. But whose? And why is he so interested in latitude 12 degrees 48'? And who is that Chinese messenger? Longway? He is the only Asian I've met here. Questions, questions and no answers... One thing is clear - I should look for the 'Mirage' near Boca De La Sierpe Coast.
#TEXT   1-12
I can see the 'Mirage' from here. Pirates are idle, they show no sign of suspicion. Looks like they recognize the 'Meifeng' as their own... Nice, I own the first shot.
#TEXT   1-13
I've sunk the 'Mirage'. Failure.
#TEXT   1-14
The fight was successful, the 'Mirage' was captured. I may return to Willemstad.
#TEXT   1-15
I've received my reward for capturing the 'Mirage'. Now I must do the second part of Lucas Rodenburg's plan. I must use the 'Mirage' to lure out English captain by the name of Richard Fleetwood and eliminate him. To do that, I should tell Fleetwood's informer that the 'Mirage' was seen not far from Dominica. John Murdock, the St. John's chemist will tell me the name of this informer. Longway will assist me in the battle against Fleetwood and prepare an ambush at Dominica.
#TEXT   1-15_1
I was too slow and mynheer Rodenburg has lost any hope to see me back. As the result, I am wanted now. That was unlucky of me.
#TEXT   1-16
According to the chemist, Charlie Knippel is the informer I need. He is living not far from the seashore.
#TEXT   1-17
Knippel is so naive! It was easy to make him believe all that nonsense! Now I should sail to Dominica and wait there for Fleetwood's arrival.
#TEXT   1-18
I have reached Dominica, yet there is no sign of the 'Meifeng'. Damn Chinese, he might had been late or... I will have to do it on my own.
#TEXT   1-19
The 'Valkyrie' was sunk with Fleetwood and his logbook. Too bad, I won't get any extra reward.
#TEXT   1-20
The 'Valkyrie' was boarded and I have found the logbook. Bastard Fleetwood had mined his vessel and I barely escaped from her. There are a lot of interesting notes in this logbook. I am going to tear out one of its pages before giving the papers to Rodenburg. It's smart, only I will know the exact location of that island. And why everyone seem to be interested in finding it?
Interesting, Fleetwood believed that Rodenburg has something to do with the 'ghost ship'. Sounds like the truth, pirates of the 'Mirage' didn't attack the 'Meifeng' first. And still, Lucas ordered me to kill van Berg. But if I am wrong and Rodenburg is getting rid of evidences... hell, the man's scale is impressive! But why Longway didn't arrive to help me? It was tough out there. Too many questions and names unknown to me. For now.
#TEXT   1-21
I have boarded the 'Valkyrie' but I didn't find the logbook. There was no time anyway, Fleetwood had set his vessel on fire and I barely escaped.
#TEXT   1-22
The 'Meifeng' is here, in the harbour, but still no sign of Longway himself. He didn't even sail to Dominica. That's odd...
#TEXT   1-23
Don't know why I did that, but I have attacked the 'Meifeng' right at the port. Now Dutch hate me. Perhaps, I drink too much rum...
#TEXT   1-24
Lucas paid me for my work. Besides, I was appointed to command the 'Meifeng' instead of lost Longway. It's all great, but my ship was sunk in the fight against English privateers right in the harbour. I should go and claim my compensation. I should also visit the governor tomorrow - Rodenburg said that I am to be nominated for a state award.
#TEXT   1-25
An order from Matthias Beck and a valuable navigation instrument from Lucas Rodenburg. I think, my career is moving up just fine...
#TEXT   1-26
I have to visit some girl called Abigail Shneur and convince her to marry Lucas Rodenburg. Never tried matchmaking. Well, let's just give it a try...
#TEXT   1-27
So banal... It's all about money again. Is it always like that? I have to talk with Abigail's father, perhaps, he will recall the island's location.
#TEXT   1-28
I met some Portuguese named Joachim Merriman. He offered me to follow him inside his house and have a talk. He is aware about Solomon's cache and promised to pay me half a million pesos for some jade skull! It seems that Solomon has hidden his treasures on the island which location I have learned from Fleetwood's and van Berg's logbooks! I should go in my cabin, I will manage to locate the island using navigation instruments. *USE ACTION MENU INSIDE YOUR CABIN*
#TEXT   1-29
I have met some Portuguese named Joachim Merriman. He offered me to follow him inside his house and have a talk. He is aware about Solomon's cache and promised to pay me half a million pesos for some jade skull! It seems that Solomon has hidden his treasures on the island which latitude I have learned from van Berg's logbook! But it is not enough, I won't sail round-the-world trip to find the island. I have to talk with Lucas, after all it is him who wants to fuck Abigail not me.
#TEXT   1-30
Here is the island I need. I should disembark there and find the grotto.
#TEXT   1-31
Solomon's coins and relic are mine. Now it is time to sail back to Willemstad. But who should get the skull? Merriman or Solomon?
#TEXT   1-32
Money was returned to Solomon. He is in an unspoken joy, he even granted me an amulet. Now I have to talk with Abigail.
#TEXT   1-33
Abigail said yes. I should tell Lucas the good news.
#TEXT   1-34
Lucas was pleased by my work, he paid me 50 000 pesos and gave me a valuable item.
#TEXT   1-35
I told Rodenburg that the Shneurs want money and he came up with a plan to imitate the retrieval of Solomon's treasures. He has given me 200 000 pesos and I must bring them to Solomon in seven-ten days.
#TEXT   1-36
I met a messenger at the port of Willemstad. I must visit Rodenburg. It's urgent.
#TEXT   1-37
Longway has offered to join my crew. I refused.
#TEXT   1-38
Longway has offered to join my crew. I agreed.
#TEXT   1-39
I have found an archive of John Murdock or, to put it correctly, Johan van Merden. It is impossible to read it though - meaningless lettering. Some cipher is needed, obviously. But where I can find one?
#TEXT   1-40
I have deciphered the archive and it was my mistake... Lucas is... bad. Well, hell with him. He is a dangerous man and he has enough power to destroy me. I will pretend that I know nothing, besides, I don't want to break a heart of beautiful Abigail. It is her choice, yet Fleetwood was an angel compared to Rodenburg.
And I am starting to own houses. It seems that I've got my first one with a dungeon underneath.
#TEXT   1-41
I have reported to Rodenburg concerning van Merden's elimination. Lucas is sailing back to Europe with Abigail. Well, good luck to them...
#TEXT   1-42
Rodenburg said that John Murdock, the chemist, is planning to get rid of me. That is odd, he wasn't looking like a scoundrel to me, though I have seen enough under Lucas command, I don't want to risk. I am heading to Antigua, I will get rid of the chemist there.
#TEXT   1-43
Looks like I am going to work as the Company's negotiation agent. Lucas Rodenburg wants me to deliver a package and money to Geraldi's branch bank in Santiago on Cuba. It is odd, but he seemed to be worried about my mission, yet refused to explain his fears. I should hurry, I only have fifteen days. I also have to be attentive.
#TEXT   1-44
Rodenburg's fears are coming true. I was stunned right on the street near Geraldi's bank. Now I am a prisoner inside... a house? What was that man talking about? Who the hell is he? It doesn't matter, he hasn't even chained me and left the room. I'll make him regret this mistake. There should be some kind of a weapon in this room!
#TEXT   1-45
I managed to escape and my kidnapper with his pal are both dead. My gear must be somewhere around. I should look for it. Too bad that I still don't know why I was kidnapped. Hell with it! I have to take a letter from the banker and sail back to Willemstad. Santiago makes me feel wrong...
#TEXT   1-46
Mynheer Rodenburg's generosity is impressive. There are still no clues about Santiago situation. Perhaps, I will learn more in the future, now I have seven days to prepare myself.
#TEXT   1-47
I was too late. Rodenburg's trust in me is ruined. Now I should expect bounty hunters...

#TEXT   2-1
Charlie Knippel ordered me to capture a heavy galleon loaded with silver which is owned by Dutch West Indian Company. I have to take the ship and her cargo to St. John's. The convoy is sailing from Willemstad to Philipsburg - I'd better be attentive in the sea.
#TEXT   2-2
I wasn't able to find the caravan. Mission is failed.
#TEXT   2-3
Fucking Knippel claims that I've failed terms of the bargain... Hell with him!
#TEXT   2-4
Charlie was pleased by my work. I should check on him him tomorrow and claim my reward. Besides, Knippel told me that his commander is eager to see me.
#TEXT   2-5
Now I am acquainted with legendary Richard Fleetwood and got the first assignment from him - I must find and eliminate the pirate who is pretending to be the 'Flying Dutchman'. I will play a role of a bait and tell everyone in Bridgetown that I am a rich and stupid merchant. The pirate's agent is working somewhere in Bridgetown.
#TEXT   2-6
All major places in the town were visited, gossips were spread. Time to fly and to prepare my ship. If the agent is really operating in Bridgetown, then the fight is guaranteed.
#TEXT   2-7
I have visited a brothel and pretended to be a wood trader.
#TEXT   2-8
I've seen a governor, declined his offer to have a dinner together and told him that my ship is loaded with cacao.
#TEXT   2-9
Harbour master was told that I trade paprika.
#TEXT   2-10
I have pretended to be an idiotic merchant who is eager to sell every single cannon in order to put some extra coffee.
#TEXT   2-11
Everybody in the local shop are now aware that I am a reach ship-owner who is buying a lot of different goods.
#TEXT   2-12
The innkeeper was quite amused by my intentions to supply Barbados with slaves on a regular basis. Why was he? Barbados plantations are well known, slaves are always welcome here...
#TEXT   2-13
Had a talk with the usurer concerning a big loan to buy a bunch of valuable goods.
#TEXT   2-14
I have sunk the 'Mirage'. It is a failure.
#TEXT   2-15
Now I see! Only barman was told about slaves. Now I understand why he was so amused. It seems, that everybody else, including the governor, have nothing to do about it. No need to rush now, I have to tell Richard about the innkeeper first.
It was just the right time to kill van Berg! But who is standing behind him? I should ask Richard about the Asian. And why Rodenburg is so interested in some flute which was sunk at latitude 12 degrees 48'?
The 'Mirage', that is how this bird is called! Well, it suits her... Now I have to sail to Antigua.
#TEXT   2-16
Richard told me about the island and its longitude. Now only I am aware about its true location. I should sail there in the nearest occasion... I should visit Curacao and bring Richard his bribe - Abigail Shneur.
#TEXT   2-17
Abigail is not at home, there is only her crazy father. He told me where I may find her - the church.
#TEXT   2-18
Abigail is asking me to find her father's coins. It seems that Solomon had hidden them on the very island which location I know. Van Berg and Fleetwood have been there once. I am heading to my ship's cabin - I can use my navigation instruments there and locate the island. *USE ACTION MENU INSIDE YOUR CABIN*
#TEXT   2-19
Jesus, I should go to church and light a candle in the nearest occasion… It was the scariest day of my life. As soon as I had approached the chest, it blew up and I barely survived. There was also a fucking monster! Now I believe in the local magic. I think I should ask Richard for a pay rise. Another surprise had been waiting for me inside the chest - the head of Gaston, the Barbados barman. He knew the latitude, there is no doubt in that. Van Berg didn't make a secret from it. But the longitude, only Fleetwood knew it! What the hell is going on? I must tell Richard about the situation and to let him to decide what to do next. After all, it concerns him in the first place.
#TEXT   2-20
I was too busy with my own matters and I failed to reach Curacao in time.
#TEXT   2-21
Richard was unable to explain what is really going on. Odd. I have to sail to Barbados and to see if Gaston is really dead. Then I should head to Blanca lagoon on Curacao, Charlie will be waiting for me there with coins for Abigail's father. I've got 20 days to do that.
#TEXT   2-22
Talking with the dead was creepy, yet poor Hercule was right. I don't care who will win this game - London or Amsterdam. But Richard is my friend at this moment and Lucas is my enemy, that is what we have now.
I should hurry up to see Charlie on Curacao. I have to find the chemist afterwards. I suppose there is no need to tell Fleetwood about Hercules's letter.
#TEXT   2-23
Fucking hilarious! Best wishes from everyone and I am left to fight Lucas on my own. They have made me the lowest bitch in this mess. Fleetwood is a dog! Tonzag was right, I can not trust people. I can't have friends here, only enemies.
Time to get know van Merden closer and waste Rodenburg once and for all.
#TEXT   2-24
Carramba! The archive is ciphered and I won't be able to read it without the code. I suppose that Rodenburg was talking about this dungeon. The code must be somewhere here.
It turns out that Longway with the Portuguese had passed me ahead on the island. Seems that they killed Tonzag. Perhaps they were frightened. It explains why van Merden was already considering him as a dead man. And Tonzag trusted him...
Looks like this map shows a location of their cache. I should check it later. Perhaps, I may find there something interesting and not only coins. There is one problem though: where is this grotto? What is name of the island? I am sure that it is located somewhere at 'their place', they mentioned it somewhere. I should look through the documents again...
#TEXT   2-25
Lucas Rodenburg on the 'Meifeng' had met me near Cayman. Of course, he was waiting there for van Merden. They are both dead now. I should search through this island for their cache. Jesus, no monsters this time, please...
#TEXT   2-26
The archive is decrypted. I was wrong, Johan didn't betray Hercule, his own curiosity did. And this Joachim Merriman. It is good that I didn't meet the wizard on Curacao. I have a feeling that we shall meet anyway in the future.
#TEXT   2-27
Lucas is dead, so hell with him! Richard and Abigail must have already forgotten about me, hell with them too! And I am alive, with coins in my chests and a house in my possession. I also have my very own dungeon. I am starting to love this line of work.

#TEXT   3-1
Gaston ordered me to find and eliminate some Fernando Rodriguez, a Castilian hidalgo. I should look for him in the Spanish settlements.
#TEXT   3-2
Barman told me that Fernando Rodriguez was seen on the streets.
#TEXT   3-3
Barman told me that Fernando Rodriguez is sailing within the local waters on his own brigantine.
#TEXT   3-4
I was too slow. No need to go to Gaston now...
#TEXT   3-5
Rodriguez was no match for me in fencing. Mission is done.
#TEXT   3-6
Rodriguez was no match for me in seamanship. Mission is done.
#TEXT   3-7
Rodriguez has escaped from me. No chance to find him again. Mission is failed. No need to go to Gaston...
#TEXT   3-8
Carramba! I forgot to cut the bastard's finger and Gaston didn't believe me. Hell with it!
#TEXT   3-9
Carramba! I didn't bring items from the Fernando's corpse and Gaston refused to do business with me... Hell with it!
#TEXT   3-10
I was paid well for eliminating the target. Nice... And now I have another task. I have to sail to Antigua, to St. John's and sneak inside captain Fleetwood's house and steal his logbook. His place must be empty in ten days.
#TEXT   3-11
What a shame... I was too slow. No need to see Gaston again...
#TEXT   3-12
It was messy: I managed to sneak inside the house and steal the logbook, but Fleetwood's marines saluted me right on the stairs, so I had to fight them all. There were another two on the streets in front of the house, they gave me a hard time and if it wasn't for some stranger who helped me there, I would be dead. I had lost my consciousness due to my wounds and later found myself in St. John's drug store, its owner, John Murdock, told me about the situation. Now I have to leave the house at night through the dungeon beneath it. And to meet the stranger.
#TEXT   3-13
It turned out that I know this stranger - Gaston, in flesh, or to put it right, Hercule Tonzag. I didn't recognize him on the streets during the fighting. I told him that I want to help them in eliminating captain Fleetwood. I should talk with Murdock. I have a feeling that he can help me.
#TEXT   3-14
John promised me to dig up some dirt on Richard Fleetwood. I should visit him in a week.
#TEXT   3-15
I was too late and Richard Fleetwood is gone - he is sailing back to England with a military squadron. What a pity...
#TEXT   3-16
John said that Fleetwood has sent his loyal agent by the name of Charlie Knippel to Curacao in odred to bring him some Jewish girl. Our Brit is in love. Obviously, I can use this bond against him. I have to intercept Charlie Knippel, he sailing to Curacao on the 'Zeekalf' under the flag of Holland.
#TEXT   3-17
I was late and there is no sign of Charlie and his brigantine. My plan is ruined.
#TEXT   3-18
Charlie Knippel was sunk along with his ship. My plan is ruined.
#TEXT   3-19
Charlie Knippel was too tough for me and I had to retreat. My plan is ruined.
#TEXT   3-20
The 'Zeekalf' is taken, Charlie Knippel is captured and put inside the cargo hold. I gave orders to interrogate him. I should go downstairs and see if there are any results already.
#TEXT   3-21
Charlie was carrying a letter for Abigail Shneur. She has never seen Charlie, I can pretend to be him and take her as a hostage. It is risky but it is worth it. Heading to Willemstad.
#TEXT   3-22
My plan worked! Abigail is agree to sail with me to St. John's. I should see her tomorrow.
#TEXT   3-23
Abigail is aboard. Heading to Antigua.
#TEXT   3-24
John is preparing a room for Abigail. Time to take her there.
#TEXT   3-25
Now I am about to blackmail Fleetwood and demand a private meeting with him. If he has a heart then he must agree with my terms... I need a messenger. John recommended one drunkard named Jack Garrison. I can find him in the tavern.
#TEXT   3-26
Letter was given to Jack. I have to follow him.
#TEXT   3-27
The answer was received. Fleetwood agrees with my terms. Turks, Northern bay. But, first, I have to talk with Murdock. Perhaps, he will give me some advice.
#TEXT   3-28
Sailing to Turks. I have to hide my ship in Southern bay and organize an ambush. It is a nice place, a lot of stones to hide my men behind.
#TEXT   3-29
I was too slow and my great plan is completely ruined.
#TEXT   3-30
I was too busy with my own things and missed Fleetwood on the bay. My great plan is completely ruined. 
#TEXT   3-31
Fleetwood is smart - he brought there not the money but his red coats. They didn't help him though - the man is dead. I am heading to my ship. His brig must be somewhere around, perhaps, I should take her as a prize?
#TEXT   3-32
Fleetwood's brig, the 'Valkyrie' was sailing near the island. I won the fight.
#TEXT   3-33
Ambush is set up. Time to wait for Fleetwood's arrival. He should be here soon.
#TEXT   3-34
John congratulated me and said that Tonzag is waiting for me in the dungeon. In the mean time, I should talk with Abigail.
#TEXT   3-35
Tonzag granted me an excellent light armour. He also mentioned that Murdock has a new mission for me.
#TEXT   3-36
John Murdock proposed me to join his fight against Lucas Rodenburg, the vice-director of the Dutch West India Company. Plan is simple: I have to capture a courier brigantine of the Company, pretend myself as Fleetwood and to send a message for Rodenburg which should force him to do something stupid.
Brigantine is called 'Hoop', I can find her seomwhere between Antigua and Saint-Christopher. She is sailing from Philipsburg to Willemstad.
#TEXT   3-37
I failed to find the brigantine. My plan is ruined.
#TEXT   3-38
I have sunk the ship. My plan is ruined.
#TEXT   3-39
The brigantine was captured and released. Her captain received a message for Rodenburg. I have to get to Willemstad to learn what reaction will follow after my message is received.
#TEXT   3-40
I have reached Willemstad. There is an interesting vessel here - a xebec named 'Meifeng'. Murdock once told me about her. A fine ship indeed. I should ask people in the tavern about her, her crew and her owner - Lucas Rodenburg.
#TEXT   3-41
I don't know why, but I have attacked the 'Meifeng' right at the port, failing my plan and ruining my relations with Holland.
#TEXT   3-42
I have sunk Peter Stuyvesant's galleon. Now I won't be able to do what I have planned.
#TEXT   3-43
Stuyvesant's galleon was sunk during our voyage to Curacao. Now I won't be able to do what I have planned.
#TEXT   3-44
I have learnt a lot from tavern folk. The local governor, Matthias Beck, was put in chains by the orders of Lucas who claimed his position for himself. Isn't that something... It seems that my message made quite an effect here. An important fact - the 'Meifeng' is getting munitions loaded, her crew is replaced by reckless mercs and bandits. I should intercept the ship and interrogate the Chinese captain.
#TEXT   3-45
'Meifeng' was captured, captain Longway was put inside the cargo hold. I should go downstairs and get information from him.
#TEXT   3-46
I have sunk 'Meifeng'. Now I won't be able to do what I've planned.
#TEXT   3-47
I have lost the 'Meifeng' and she gone now. Now I won't be able to do what I've planned.
#TEXT   3-48
The Chinese agreed to give information in exchange for his freedom. I have to land him at Cape Inaccessible of Guadeloupe.
#TEXT   3-49
This is just getting better and better! Rodenburg ordered Longway to kill Peter Stuyvesant! It is definitely a coup. They hang people for that. I have to find Stuyvesant and tell him everything. He will deal with Lucas at once. Peter's galleon will be cruising near Saint-Christopher for a week.
#TEXT   3-50
I didn't find the galleon. Now I won't be able to do what I've planned.
#TEXT   3-51
I was too slow sailing to Willemstad and Peter's galleon has left me. Now I won't be able to do what I've planned.
#TEXT   3-52
Stuyvesant's galleon is a part of my squadron now. I am heading to Curacao!
#TEXT   3-53
Stuyvesant arrested Rodenburg and put him in prison. My mission is finished, but I have to visit the residence tomorrow - I was promised to be rewarded...
#TEXT   3-54
Stuyvesant rewarded me with 100 000 for killing Fleetwood and 150 000 extra for a revelation of the coup. Matthias Beck presented me an excellent navigation tool. Brother was right, I am starting to love this life.
#TEXT   3-55
I have met some Portuguese named Joachim Merriman. He promised to pay me half a million for a jade skull. Solomon, the Abigail's father, was the last owner of the item. I should talk with the man after I bring his daughter back.
#TEXT   3-56
I told John about my success. I have also told him about Jacob van Berg and this made the druggist really worried. I have to take Abigail back. She is in a church.
#TEXT   3-57
Had a talk with Abigail. Heading to Curacao.
#TEXT   3-58
Solomon told me only a name of the flute and a name her captain. I should talk with a harbour master. 
#TEXT   3-59
The captain I'm seeking has gone to Trinidad.
#TEXT   3-60
Now I know the island's location. 12 degrees 48' North, 64 degrees 41' West. I should go to my cabin and make calculations there. *USE ACTION MENU INSIDE YOUR CABIN*
#TEXT   3-61
I was attacked by van Berg's pirates even before I had a chance to take coins and the skull from the cache. It seems that he has finally tracked me down. Obviously, those four were only vanguards. Time to prepare myself...
#TEXT   3-62
Van Berg's scouts are eliminated. Now I have to deal with Jacob himself, his ship is coming...
#TEXT   3-63
Van Berg is destroyed and so is his ship. English traders won't suffer any longer from the 'Flying Dutchman'. And I can breath freely now. I should see John and claim my reward. I also should pay Joachim a visit. Not sure what to do with Abi and Solomon - should I return them their gold? Moral choices...
#TEXT   3-64
John Murdock rewarded me with his drug store! The only term - I must take care of some scientist upstairs. I should have a talk with him later. The druggist also paid me 100 000 pesos and presented a great musket. A decent reward for my work.
#TEXT   3-65
Eh, life is unpredictable! I have been using Abigail as a hostage for weeks, I killed her beloved and put another her suitor behind bars, and now she is kissing me and her mad dad is claiming that she likes me and I should marry her. Sure, Abi is a great girl, but I don't want to lie her till death do us apart. Besides, marriage is not a part of my plans so far. Forever for her, I will be Charlie Knippel, her guardian angel and the saviour of her family. Poetry!
#TEXT   3-66
I know the island's coordinates. I should go to my cabin, I can use my navigation tools in order to locate the island. *USE ACTION MENU INSIDE YOUR CABIN*
#TEXT   3-67
I was too slow sailing to Antigua and poor Abigail died of the tropical fever. My brilliant plan is ruined...
#TEXT   3-68
I was too slow interrogating Charlie Knippel and he died in my cargo holds. What a shame, my brilliant plan is ruined...
#TEXT   3-69
I didn't take Abigail, as she has asked me, and crazy girl rushed to St. John's on her own. Such a hysterical bitch. My brilliant plan is ruined...
#TEXT   3-70
I was too slow interrogating Longway and he died in my cargo holds. What a shame, my brilliant plan is ruined...
#TEXT   3-71
I was too slow sailing to Guadeloupe. And Longway died of the tropical fever. What a shame, my brilliant plan is ruined...

#QUEST Sharlie
A Burden of The Gascon
#TEXT   1
The ways of the Lord are inscrutable!
Who could even think half a year ago that my brother, a Maltese knight and the hero of Barcelona - Michel de Monper, would disgrace his father's name. And I, 'the prodigal son', 'rake' and 'gigolo', will have to fix all this mess. My 'infallible' brother's mess.
And yet, here I am. Sailing to the edge of the World, far away from Paris and my Lulu. I was going to draw her as Venus Rising From the Sea, but I must admit, the sea is looking pretty different from what I was imagining before. I should consider it after my return... I hope that my journey will end before Christmas and the girl's husband will die fighting the Spanish in Flanders. He is the reason why Parisian air has become deadly dangerous for me.
I should ask about my dear brother at the Order's mission. I suppose that the local governor Jacques Dyel du Parquet is aware what is going on within his lands. However, I was warned to avoid being direct and to use caution. The direct way is not always the best way. Perhaps I should ask around...
It is good that I still have a few Lulu's jewels and some silver coins. It should be enough to live here for a while and to return back as soon as I find out what the reckless Michel has done.
#TEXT   2
I was arrested as soon as I tried to ask about my brother. Jesus, I will forever remember local rats and bugs. The situation has ended positively for me though - some pompous jerk visited me in the prison and ordered his men to release me. He introduced himself as the governor-general of French colonies Philippe de Poincy.
Turns out that our brave Michel is completely screwed! De Poincy suspects him in every crime possible. I won't waste time, I should see my brother and let him speak for himself. What had he done if his only name can throw a man in the cage? I am heading to the underground base of Maltese Order in Saint-Pierre.
#TEXT   3
One of the citizens recommended me to talk with abbot Benoit in the local church. My brother's name makes people nervous. It looks like he is in a real trouble...
#TEXT   4
The abbot barely recognized me as a brother of Michel and a son of Henri de Monper. Looks like he is familiar with my father... I have to rent a room in the local tavern and come back to him next morning - monsieur Benoit promised to organize a meeting with the man who can help me to find my brother.
#TEXT   5
Had a talk with my brother. Isn't that something! I still don't get it. Michel is accused of stealing Order's money and he owes a million pesos to Philippe de Poincy, the governor-general of French colonies! Impossible! And I must collect the money!
It seems that my journey is going to drag out and poor Lulu will have to find another cock. Well, it won't take long, considering her habits. And I am about to face a 'great' opportunity. Michel said that I am going to be a sailor and a captain of my own ship. Can't say that I am looking for it, yet, I fear, that I don't have a choice and I have to embrace my fate. My brother mentioned some good ship, lugger, he called it. I should see the local shipbuilder and talk about purchasing the vessel. And where am I going to get the money?
#TEXT   5-1
Had a talk with my brother. Isn't that something! I still don't get it. Michel is accused of stealing Order's money and he owes a million pesos to Philippe de Poincy, the governor-general of French colonies! Impossible! And I must collect the money!
It seems that my journey is going to drag out and poor Lulu will have to find another cock. Well, it won't take long, considering her habits. And I am about to face a 'great' opportunity. Michel said that I am going to be a sailor and a captain of my own ship. Can't say that I am looking for it yet, I fear, that I don't have a choice and I have to embrace my fate. My brother mentioned some good ship, lugger, he called it. I should see the local shipbuilder and talk about purchasing the vessel.As for the money I need to buy a ship and equipment - abbot Benoit of St. Pierre's chapel can lend me them.
#TEXT   5-2
Abbot Benoit has lent me 50 000 pesos and 100 golden doubloons for six months. Lovely!
#TEXT   5-3
My debt to abbot Benoit has been paid off.
#TEXT   6
Done, Michel's wish is fulfilled - I am a captain! Ha, I wonder what Lulu would say seeing me walking aboard this tub! A captain... Still can't get used to it. Fine. Time to hire the crew. Brother said that the bartender might help me with that.
#TEXT 6-1
The bartender suggested I look for crewmen among the folk in his tavern.
#TEXT   7
Now I am almost a true captain - I've got my own crew! I am damn proud... Now it is time to find a proper navigator, I am unable even to leave the island. I should ask the bartender again, he has already helped me with my crew, perhaps, he will assist me with my navigator problem.
#TEXT   8
Some Folke Deluc, the navigator, was put in jail for his debts. This is the only choice I have, I should try to get the man out of prison. I am going to talk with a commandant.
#TEXT   9
I have got debentures. Now I can go to a commandant and get my navigator out of the dungeons.
#TEXT   10
Folke Deluc is a part of my crew now. I should take him to my ship and talk with him in my cabin - perhaps, Folke will tell something important. *USE ACTION MENU IN ORDER TO ACCESS YOUR CABIN WHILE BEING ON YOUR SHIP*
#TEXT   11
I have met a funny lad near the town gates. Walter Catcher. He said that Cesar Craig, the bartender of Le Francois, offers to use my cargo hold to deliver wine to Guadeloupe. I will be paid 10 000 pesos. It would be foolish to decline such an offer especially in my current position. I should visit Le Francois after I equip my ship.
#TEXT   12
I have to buy 100 cannon balls, chain shots, grape shots, bombs and 200 powder portions.
#TEXT   13
I should also buy weapons for 50 men, not less.
#TEXT   14
Provision supply is vital: 100 packs of provision and 10 barrels of rum.
#TEXT   15
My ship is ready and completely equipped. Now I can sail to Guadeloupe, but first I should visit Le Francois for Cesar Craig's wine, 10 000 pesos will do just perfect for me.
#TEXT   16
Damn! I was fooled, Cesar Craig had no intentions to offer me anything. It is obvious now, someone was really eager to lure me to Le Francois. It all smells bad... I have to get to my ship as soon as possible and sail away from here.
#TEXT   17
It is all clear now. Pirates are on us. It seems that those scum want my ship, so they have ambushed me far from Saint-Pierre's fort. We are alone here, I have to engage them.
#TEXT   18
It was tough, but the victory is mine. It will serve as a good life lesson for me. Well, I can breath freely now and sail to Guadeloupe.
#TEXT   18-1
I had a talk with Fadey. I haven't received any coins from him, only some rare dagger. Not an equal exchange, but it is better than nothing. I am going to see my brother back in Saint-Pierre and get further instructions.
#TEXT   19
Well, time to become a real sailor. My dear brother gave me all time in the world to learn. Such generosity!.. Poor Lulu! She won't wait for my return... Yet, I admit, she is the last thing I care about now. Those 'adventures' my brother keeps talking about, well, they are troubling my mind. My brother is holding something back, no doubt in that. Whatever, my time will come eventually... It seems that Michel considers me as a worthless idiot according to his last teaching and protective talk. Hell with him! We will see, I will find the way to get better of him. We will see!
Now it is time to visit Fadey again, time is vital, I should hurry. Let the fat man to sweat a bit and find me a job. He has already screwed me once anyway, so he owes me.
#TEXT   20
My dear brother has a new task for me - to find powerful people and to gain their trust. I am presented a choice. I can work for the Dutch West Indian Company or find some English privateer at Antigua. I may also try to search for who knows who in Bridgetown. Just great... At least, the final decision is mine.
#TEXT   21
De Poincy is such a bastard! Michel had all reasons to doubt his honesty. Money wasn't enough and now I must do what my brother failed to! Michel will tell me details just as always. My brother is in a real trouble and I have to drag him out of it. I am getting used to such business though, I have been working for people and fixing their screw-ups since I arrived here. The bright side is coins... And I like it! Just like my brother does... My life in Paris doesn't make any sense for me now. What if someone would have told me about that a few years ago? But enough. Time to see Michel again.
#TEXT   22
No clues from Michel, only new riddles. To eliminate Levasseur, the governor of Tortuga? Who the hell they think I am? Head of the French army? De Poincy just loves to make people pull his chestnuts out of the fire!
Shark... Swanson... Pirates... Looks like it is time to get to know leaders of the Brethren of the Coast.
Heading to La Vega, to see the Codekeeper Marcus Tyrex.
#TEXT   22_1
Time to take care of Michel's and de Poincy's business. Heading to Blueweld, to see Jan Swanson, a pirate baron.
#TEXT   23
At last, my brother is about to be free! But 'surprisingly' it is not getting any easier: de Poincy said that Saint-Pierre is under Spanish attack. It would be a great shame if Spanish kill my brother after all effort I put to gain a freedom for him. Well, fighting is not a problem for me any more, heading to Martinique now!
#TEXT   24
De Poincy appreciated my actions for the good of the Order and for his own good. I was promoted to the rank of French Navy captain. I also got a patent, a fancy uniform and, what is the most important, a great military vessel. No doubt, Michel couldn't even imagine it. Eh, I wish my father could see me now!
At last, my brother is about to be free! But 'surprisingly' it is not getting any easier: de Poincy said that Saint Pierre is under Spanish attack. It would be a great shame if Spanish kill my brother after all effort I put to gain a freedom for him. Well, fighting is not a problem for me any more, heading to Martinique now!
#TEXT   25
Isn't that something! Henri Thibaut is looking for me to propose me a 'well paid' job. The sailor told me that this job includes killing Robert Martene. It seems that there is no need in Martene after Levasseur was killed... Perhaps, Thibaut has another reason. Whatever. I have got only ten days to reach Tortuga.
#TEXT   26
Fuck... Molly Jones wasn't a servant girl. Martene kidnapped Catherine Fox, daughter of colonel Fox, the head of royal marines! Robert got scared shitless and decided to get rid of the girl. Thibaut wanted to hire me to eliminate Martene but I refused: the girl is already dead and I have got problems of my own. He will have to deal with his ex partner himself.
#TEXT   27
Fuck... Molly Jones wasn't a servant girl. Martene kidnapped Catherine Fox, daughter of colonel Fox, the head of royal marines! Robert got scared shitless and decided to get rid of the girl.
Thibaut has offered me a quarter of million for the head of his ex associate - it is clear that Henri fears colonel Fox. It is not my business any longer but Robert Martene has killed an innocent girl and he must get what he deserves! He will be sailing on a heavy galleon named Infanta from Caracas to Santo Domingo as a part of Spanish squadron.
#TEXT   28
I have found the Spanish squadron and boarded Martene' galleon. The bastard is eliminated and I may return to Thibaut and claim my reward.
#TEXT   29
I have found the Spanish squadron and destroyed Martene. It was a mistake, I completely forgot that Thibaut demanded Robert's finger as a proof. Damn it, I won't get any coins...
#TEXT   30
I failed to do Thibaut's mission. Too bad, captain's path is not always that lucky and clear...
#TEXT   31
Henri Thibaut has paid me what he promised. I hope that it will be a good lesson for him.
#TEXT   32
It is done. Killing Levasseur wasn't easy but I did it!
Now I can return to de Poincy. That old fox won't dare to refuse to release my dear brother. Soon I will return back to Europe. Paris is waiting for me!
Paris? No feeling of happiness or rejoice. Michel was right... The Caribbean changed me, I am different now, I am a man. Perhaps my place is here now?
#TEXT   33
I have reached Saint-Pierre through the jungles and destroyed all Spanish forces. Time to clear the town from the invaders. God help us!
#TEXT   34
Spanish landing party is eliminated. Now we must fight for the Maltese underground base! It is still under attack.
#TEXT   35
All intruders were destroyed. My brother's life is safe. I should immediately release him from his chamber - the time has come!
#TEXT   36
Now we must to retake the fort, I need an advantage in fire support to fight Spanish squadron. Michel is gathering forces all around the town. He will be waiting for me outside the gates.
#TEXT   37
The fort is ours! All enemies are eliminated. Now I should return to my ship and attack 
Spanish squadron. Michel will provide me with a fire support from the fort.
#TEXT   38
Spanish squadron is completely destroyed. Saint-Pierre is safe now. It was a tough fight but I did it! Now I should disembark and find Michel in the town.
#TEXT   39
Michel congratulated me but something was very wrong with his tone, I also didn't really like how he was looking at me... or, perhaps, it is just my imagination? Whatever. I will see him tomorrow at abbot Benoit's place. It’s time for him to show me his cards...
#TEXT   40
Father Vincento is on the scene, once again. His messenger delivered a letter and assurances that the inquisitor is no threat for me. Well, let's see what His Eminence wants to tell me. I should read the letter immediately.
#TEXT   41
Father Vincento is asking to meet him at the neutral territories, inside the chapel of Willemstad cemetery. No doubt, he wants to talk about Tayasal. He must be worrying about the return of Kukulcan. The final decision is mine: should I talk with His Eminence or not? I have got the Mask, so I don't have any reasons to worry. Do I?
#TEXT   42
I decided to stay away from Vincento. His duplicity has blown away my trust. I don't believe that Maldonado was acting only by his own initiative. No need to search for Tayasal, Gino was right: I have the mask - no need to worry. I can destroy it any time.
#TEXT   43
Despite the fact that I did everything I had to do and that I have found Indian treasures so I have no problems with money now - I have decided to stay here, at Americas. I have become a real man here. And France... I will always be able to return there!

#QUEST SharlieA
The Missing Assistant
#TEXT   1
A shop's owner of Saint-Pierre has asked me to find his lost employee named Gralam Lavoie. The reward is one thousand pesos. I should look for him outside the town, I was told that Gralam is definitely not in Saint-Pierre.
#TEXT   2
I have found Gralam Lavoie in Le Francois. It is clear that he is not eager to return to his ex employer. Well, my work is done, I may return and claim my coins.
#TEXT  3
Now the merchant is asking me to find a new assistant for him. There are no options in Saint-Pierre, so I should look for them in Le Francois. I will be paid well if I find a proper applicant.
#TEXT  4
I had a talk with applicants who were introduced to me by the innkeeper of Le Francois and I have chosen the most suitable. Now I should deliver him to the shop's owner of Saint-Pierre. I have already invested my time and thousand pesos, so he'd better pay me in full.
#TEXT  5
It's done. I should return in an hour and claim my reward.

#QUEST SharlieB
Rum Matters
#TEXT   1
Looks like it is time to master the skill of the smuggler. Lugger Ghost will drop anchor not far from Lamentin Bay tonight. I must find her, tell her captain a password and get few boxes of expensive bottled rum. Then I should sail to Le Francois. My reward is five thousand pesos. A barque will wait for me at the pier at 7 pm.
#TEXT   2
I wasn't able to find the lugger near Lamentin Bay. Barman's mission is failed. I am heading back to the town.
#TEXT   3
I have spent to much time ashore and the barque sailed without me. What a pity...
#TEXT   4
I got the rum. Now it's time to sail to Le Francois.
#TEXT   5
Barman has paid me what he promised - five thousand pesos. I also got a spyglass and three bottles of rum.
#TEXT   6
I said a wrong password and I was literally thrown overboard. What a shame...
#TEXT   7
Barque is at the pier. I may sail now.

#QUEST SharlieC
The Whore-Master
#TEXT   1
I have met some nobleman named @<sName> and he asked me to do him an unusual favour: go to the local brothel and talk with its owner, Angelica. I have to ask her to let one of her girls, Lucille, to work 'outside the house' tonight. I also have to take the girl to the nobleman's place, a mansion with a red roof, not far from the governor's palace after eleven p.m.
#TEXT   2
I had a deal with Angelica. I should talk with Lucille at eleven pm. Works for me, considering my client's wish.
#TEXT   3
The girl was delivered to my client's place. Well, I suppose that all are happy now: me, the nobleman and Lucille...

#QUEST SharlieD
The Spanish Engineer
#TEXT   1
The usurer offered me a dangerous mission in order to sink a debt of Folke Deluc: I should visit Le Marin Cove tonight, save the Spanish prisoner from pirates who want to sell him to English. Then I should take him to my client. No sailing is allowed, I must reach Le Marin Cove on foot through the jungles.
#TEXT   2
I wasn't listening to my client's instructions and sailed to the bay on my ship. No sign of pirates there, it is obvious that I have scared off pirates and failed my task.
#TEXT   3
I was too slow and pirates are gone now. My task is completely failed.
#TEXT   4
Spanish was killed while I was fighting pirates. What a shame...
#TEXT   5
There were too many pirates, so I decided to retreat and avoid playing a hero.
#TEXT   6
Pirates were not intractable. So I had to deal with them. The Spanish tried to get rid of me by taking one of swords and fighting me but I managed to calm him down fast enough. It is odd but he claims that he doesn't know the usurer... Whatever, it's not my business. I should take him to Saint-Pierre. I must avoid town guards until my prisoner is delivered.
#TEXT   7
The Spanish was delivered to the usurer's place. It is done, I have got Deluc's debt papers - I may go and release him from the prison.

#QUEST SharlieF
Cannibalism Does Not Exist
#TEXT   1
Harbourmaster told me that a man named Prosper Troubale needs an immediate help. I should hurry to find him. I was told that he must be near the well not far from the town gates.
#TEXT   2
I lost too much time and Prosper has already left the town. Obviously, he went to the jungles. What a shame, I have lost an opportunity to make some coins.
#TEXT   3
Not sure that I will make any coins on that, but I just couldn't say no to the man, whose daughter is in deadly danger. I will go with Prosper Troubale to the jungles in order to eliminate a band of Indians who kidnap people of Saint-Pierre.
#TEXT   4
I completely forgot about our task and Prosper has left me. He will fight alone. Shame on me...
#TEXT   5
Prosper and I managed to kill redskins who really were cannibals. The girl and another victim are safe now. Heading to the town.
#TEXT   6
Redskins really were cannibals and all of them are eliminated. Unfortunately, Prosper died in the fight.
#TEXT   7
It all turned out well. Celene with her father have returned back to the town and I received a generous reward.
#TEXT   8
I have taken Celene back to the town. She presented me a follicle of doubloons for her rescue. I accepted her gift, she was insisting anyway.

#QUEST SharlieE
The Stolen Jewel
#TEXT   1
I have found a corpse of some pirate or bandit in the jungles. He was carrying gorgeous earrings. I should ask people in the town about them, perhaps I will find their original owner and make a good coin.
#TEXT   2
Turned out that the earrings belong to the governor's wife. Jacques Dyel du Parquet was very happy that the jewel is finally back to his family. He even presented a map of archipelago.
#TEXT   3
I have sold the earrings to the local usurer for thirty five golden doubloons. Nice deal...
#TEXT   4
I have sole the earrings to the local merchant for four thousand pesos. Nice deal...

#QUEST Trial
The Caribbean In A Nutshell
#TEXT   1
Fadey agreed to help me with a job. Had to listen to all that sermon nonsense again, I wonder when people will stop teaching me... I should go to the local shop tomorrow morning and talk with Gerard LeCroix.
#TEXT   2
I was too late for the meeting with my potential client. I have lost my chance. What a shame, now I should be looking for a job myself.
#TEXT   3
I had a meeting with LeCroix as I was told to, yet @<sText> and he refused to accept my services. Too bad. I should be looking for a job myself.
#TEXT   4
I must deliver a load of bombs and gunpowder to the fort of Port-au-Prince on Hispaniola. My payment is five thousand pesos. But, according to LeCroix, it is only the first and the easiest part of my mission. I will receive further instructions from the commandant of the fort.
#TEXT   5
I was too slow and failed to get Port-au-Prince in time. Such a fool I am. I didn't get any coins and spoiled my relations with France...
#TEXT   6
I refused to do the job, it smells too bad for me. I'd better do something else...
#TEXT   7
The Port-au-Prince commandant has given me a very important mission - I must deliver cannons to French frigate which is cruising not far from Portobello. I have got only two weeks to do the job. I should hurry!
#TEXT   8
I was too slow and failed to reach Portobello in time. All terms are off now. My sluggishness failed the military operation... I didn't make any coins and spoiled my relations with France.
#TEXT   9
Florian Shoke is dead. Damn it, I won't be able to prove that I have nothing to do with this. My relations with France are going to be quite complicated since now.
#TEXT   10
I've let Florian Shoke down. I didn't deliver him enough cannons. My foolishness destroyed the military operation...
#TEXT	11
I have delivered the cannons to Florian Shoke. He tried to get me involved in some spy business but I refused. Way too dangerous.
#TEXT	12
Now I have 250 doubloons and a new mission from Florian Shoke. I have to sneak into Portobello and find out why galleon Alcantara is not setting sail. I should also find out what happened to Sylvan Laforet also known as Jaime Silicio. 
#TEXT	13
Damn it! I was too careless. Bloody innkeeper called guards as soon as he heard a name of Jaime Silicio. Now all town is aware of my presence. I have to return to Florian Shoke empty-handed...
#TEXT	14
Well-well... Seems like Shoke's agent was caught by town guards. I must be careful, asking citizens about Alcantara seems to be risky. I need someone local, unremarkable and poor...
#TEXT	15
Local beggar was a good choice of mine. He believed in all trash I have been telling him and agreed to find out about the galleon at the shipyard. I should meet him near the shipyard at 11 pm.
#TEXT	16
What a shame. I didn't have enough coins to pay the beggar and he run away. My presence here has become too dangerous. I have to return to Florian Shoke empty-handed...
#TEXT	17
My personal 'agent' did well! I know everything I need now. I can return to Florian Shoke and claim my golden coins! Soon they will weigh down my pockets.
#TEXT	18
Time which was given me by Florian Shoke is over and the frigate has gone away. Nothing is keeping me here now.
#TEXT	19
I have got another task to do. I have to sink or board a barque called Puebla. She is sailing from Cartagena to Portobello, loaded with munitions. Intercepting her will increase Shoke's chances to capture the Alcantara.
#TEXT	20
I failed to destroy the Puebla. Bad, too bad...
#TEXT	21
A task, given me by Florian Shoke, is done! Now I should sail to Guadeloupe and see my old friend Gerard LeCroix in order to get my payment and another money job.
#TEXT	22
Gerard LeCroix has already left Basse-Terre. I can claim my reward from Simon Maurois, the financial inspirer of captain Shoke's expedition.

#QUEST Saga
The Pirate Saga
#TEXT   1
Let's sum up. My meeting with Swanson is delayed until I find lost Rumba or find out what really happened to her. What do I know about this beauty? She disappeared with her schooner Rainbow loaded with redwood. She has a skilled crew, so the probability of Spanish or pirate attack is low. Though I won't leave both of them out of account... I find the 'amorous' version the most interesting, considering her popularity among males. There are two main suspects, her most recent admirers. One of them is a pirate, Jimmy Higgins of Maroon Town, the second one is some English captain of a corvette. The ship must be military, so I won't get any information in Blueweld. My only option is to visit Higgins first. Maroon Town, Jamaica. I will also have a chance to know another pirate baron better.
Gladys tone was so strange while she was talking about Helen's mother. Did she mean herself? Or didn't she?
#TEXT   2
Seems that I failed everything. And I had such a chance to become a friend of Swanson! Such opportunities are rare and I have lost my chance. I don't see any other ways to gain a help from pirates.
Nothing to do here. I have to prepare a squadron and storm Tortuga according to all rules of military study.
#TEXT   3
Damn it! I just can't get rid of my Paris style. I have murdered the poor drunkard and lost the only clue. Where should I look for the corvette and her captain? I am not even sure that he has something to do with Helen's disappearance. I fear that I don't have much time left to find her.
But, first, I should visit Jackman. I am curious who is he looking for.
#TEXT   4
It is getting clearer now. Well done, Jimmy! I had to kill that sly before he blurt out something unnecessary. Though I admit, I feel bad for the poor idiot.
So. Captain of the Arbutus corvette is called Arthur Donovan. He is cruising not far from Antigua, probably on patrol. And he is the first suspect. He had all reasons to kidnap Rumba. She insulted and mocked him. 'Real gentleman' may not forgive such an attitude from a peasant girl, even from a beautiful one. He could know her course and a corvette can easily catch and sink a schooner loaded with redwood. I should hurry to Antigua. This bastard can do anything if I am right about him.
But, first, I should visit Jackman. I am curious who and why is he looking for, and why.
#TEXT   4_1
It is getting clearer now. Well done, Jimmy!
So. Captain of the Arbutus corvette is called Arthur Donovan. He is cruising not far from Antigua, probably on patrol. And he is the first suspect. He had all reasons to kidnap Rumba. She insulted and mocked him. 'Real gentleman' may not forgive such an attitude from a peasant girl, even from a beautiful one. He could know her course and a corvette can easily catch and sink a schooner loaded with redwood. I should hurry to Antigua. This bastard can do anything if I am right about him.
But, first, I should visit Jackman. I am curious who and why is he looking for.
#TEXT   5
It is getting clearer now. Well done, Jimmy! Perhaps I made a mistake sparing his life but, good Lord, he deserved it.
So. Captain of the Arbutus corvette is called Arthur Donovan. He is cruising not far from Antigua, probably on patrol. And he is the first suspect. He had all reasons to kidnap Rumba. She insulted and mocked him. 'Real gentleman' may not forgive such an attitude from a peasant girl, even from a beautiful one. He could know her course and a corvette can easily catch and sink a schooner loaded with redwood. I should hurry to Antigua. This bastard can do anything if I am right about him.
But, first, I should visit Jackman. I am curious who and why is he looking for.
#TEXT   6
Now we have got a new actor on the scene in addition to Gladys and Helen. Henry the Hangman, an ex boatswain of the Neptune, captain Butcher's ship. Serious people, serious business, so many years passed and someone is still interested.
It seems that Helen is an adopted daughter of Gladys. Gladys surname was Chandler almost twenty years ago. This is a delicate business, so I should be careful.
@<sText>
#TEXT   7
Arbutus corvette is cruising near Antigua. I don't know why, but I am sure that Rumba is there. To arms!
#TEXT   8
Donovan was too tough for me. I had to retreat. Too bad, I won't be able to find Rumba...
#TEXT   9
I have sunken the Artubus with her captain, her crew and the poor Rumba. Eh, that was really unlucky...
#TEXT   10
I have boarded Donovan's corvette. Helen was held there as a prisoner as I have expected. That scum had thrown her inside a cargo hold to the rats, so my arrival was just in time. Now I should go to my cabin and talk with the girl.
#TEXT   11
I was right. Donovan ambushed the Rainbow. Helen didn't have a chance. Schooner was boarded, crew slaughtered, redwood was captured and the schooner was sunk. No witnesses were left.
Smart. Donovan was out of suspicions and no one would ever remember about him if it wasn't for mister Higgins who provoked a scandal. If it wasn't for him, then Rumba would be feeding crabs by now.
#TEXT   12
I was too slow sailing to Blueweld and poor Rumba died of the tropical fever. That was silly...
#TEXT   13
Well, it is done. The girl did well. I hope that this will be reckoned in the other world. Now I have got a good reason to see Swanson. I hope that he is better than Jackman.
#TEXT   14
I had a meeting with Jan Swanson. He was really glad to hear about Rumba and he is ready to work with me. We had a talk about Levasseur and, I suppose, I have a real chance to get his support in this matter.
I have told Jan that Jackman is looking for some people. And... riddles and mysteries. Let’s suppose that Henry the Hangman is still alive, he believes in God and angels, so his name is Enrique now. Let's suppose that he has taken Gonzales mother surname. Perhaps, he is hiding in Cartagena. Boarding saber 'hanged man' is quite a notable item. Yet, I doubt that Enrique Gonzales will carry it openly. Too many guesses and too few facts.
At least, Swanson will consider Levasseur's assassination. I myself have got no ideas regarding the matter. In the meantime, I should visit the McArthurs or whatever their true name is. I should also find Henry the Hangman in Cartagena.
#TEXT   15
Now I see! He is neither Enrique, nor Gonzales. I should check old Alvarez. I bet my hand that he is our Henry the Hangman.
#TEXT   16
I was a fool! I have scared shitless a peaceful Spanish citizen. My mistake...
#TEXT   17
Not Enrique I was looking for! My mistake...
#TEXT   18
And why so brutal?.. Where is that old boatswain?
#TEXT   19
And why so brutal?.. Where is that old boatswain? Should I visit the local lighthouse? That Alvarez is quite promising...
#TEXT   20
Poor Hangman! Old pirate's heart didn't make it. Though Jackman won't get him either. May God watch over him.
So, here is all what I got:
1. Helen McArthur is the daughter of pirate Butcher, captain of the Neptune, who was hanged twenty years ago. Jacob Jackman was his first mate.
2. Ex-executioner of St. John's holds some knowledge of interest for me.
3. Gladys is foster mother of Helen, but the girl might do not know that.
4. Henry was a boatswain of the Neptune and he was supposed to deliver gold to Gladys for the baby.
5. He had to show Gladys a parole - the captain's ring. I wonder, will she be able to recognize it after so many years.
But first, I should talk to Swanson. I have got something to show him.
#TEXT   21
I've told everything to Jan Swanson. Everything about Henry the Hangman and his last words. But I should talk with Gladys, she might help me to clear up this story a bit. I should talk openly with her. I suppose that the captain's ring will help me in that.
#TEXT   22
I had a talk with Gladys. Missus McArthur didn't deny Henry's words. I also got some piece of an old map, it belonged to Helen's mother, her 'heritage'. Gladys claims that it is just an odd joke, but something is telling me that she is wrong... I suppose that I should see Jan Swanson again...
#TEXT   23
It is just getting more and more interesting. Helen McArthur is the one who succeeds the whole island! Yet, to prove her rights, we need to find another part of the map which belonged to Blaze Sharp, he is a foster son of Helen's grandfather. It is interesting that Blaze was recently murdered, no doubt that Jackman's thugs had something to do with it.
Swanson told me that Helen is eager to serve under my flag as an officer... Well, I suppose that it will be much safer for her, because I know what Jackman is capable of. I should visit the McArthurs.
#TEXT   24
Helen is my officer now. Never thought that I will command such a great girl.
Now I should wait for Swanson, who is preparing his general plan...
#TEXT   25
It's in the bag! New head of Brethren of the Coast will be chosen soon and unanimously. Now it's Swanson's turn. Time to tell him good news.
#TEXT   26
The end of this long story. Jan presented me an excellent amulet and five shards of the Maya's calendar. Souvenirs... I should see the new head of Brethren on Isla Tesoro. He will give me details about assassination of Levasseur.


#QUEST LSC
The Justice Island
#TEXT   parol
Current @<sText> password is '@<sParol>'.
#TEXT   1

#TEXT   2
The Justice Island is divided by spheres of influence: San Augustin and Tartarus belong to Shark Dodson and his pirates, Rivados clan owns Protector, Fury and Velasco. Narwhals control Esmeralda, San Gabriel, Phoenix and Ceres Smithy. Rest of the ships are considered as a neutral territories. An important note: the only Narwal ship available to everyone is the store on Esmeralda. Other ships are forbidden to visit. All Rivados ships are also available only to their own. If you want to visit any forbidden ship, you should know weekly passwords of each clan.
#TEXT   3
Giuseppe Fazio is the man who sells passwords, he lives on Caroline. He is some sort of a mediator between the local clans. A diplomat.
#TEXT   4
Chimiset, the Rivados wizard, told me where I can find the statue I seek. The sunken ship named San Geronimo. I have to find a way to dive there in order to leave this place.
#TEXT   5
I have received sailing directions and details. Turns out that only small ships, not bigger than 4th rank, can reach the heart of the island. 
Now it is time to think about leaving this place...
#TEXT   6
It is good that I have found the White Boy, Ole Christiansen! Snake Eye was right, this warm hearted boy has helped me a lot. Now I know that:
1. Nathaniel Hawk is really here. White Boy saved him from San Augustine's cargo hold and took him to Fernanda. That is his safe place. This ship is staying away from the others, that is why nobody has seen Nathaniel here. His health is bad and he drinks a lot. Of course, he does! I remember how I was feeling after teleportation. Nathan didn't have the Comanche potion. If I want to see Hawke, I should go to Fernanda and knock on the door. Nathaniel will open it for me.
2. Some man named Henrik can help me to reach the statue at the bottom. He lives in San Gabriel's workshop. Ole said that the man can walk at the bottom of the sea and he has even taught Narwhals to do so. Sounds idiotic but I've seen so much for the last few days... Anyway, Henrik is my only hope to reach the Kukulcan idol and to leave the island relatively safely. I should see him immediately.
#TEXT   7
Problem solved: Henrik has got a special suit to dive and to spend some time at the bottom. I have got all chances to find the Kukulcan statue. But there are certain complications, as always. The suit is broken and Mechanic needs some rare metal called 'platina' - the little silver. Of course, I agreed to help him and Vedecker gave me an example piece of the metal. I have to find ten pieces, not less. Ten pieces of 'little silver' and I will be able to find the statue.
#TEXT   8
'Little silver' was given to Vedecker and he is ready to repair the suit. I should see him again in five days, this repair is going to be difficult.
#TEXT   9
I was expecting that: now I need to find more ingots for the suit's repair. I must find @<sQty> more somewhere and the work will be done.
#TEXT   10
At last, some light at the end of the tunnel! The suit will be ready @<sText1>. I should see Mechanic at 10 a.m. I will be able to leave the island immediately, as soon as I find the statue. @<sText2>
#TEXT   11
I am ready to dive. But I have missed one thing - the statue activates at midnight. There is neither possibility to dive at night, nor sense. I won't be able to use any torch there and I won't see a thing without any source of light. But crabs will see me, no doubt. Damn it! But I have to dive, anyway. At least, I must find the idol and remember its position in order to be able to reach it in the darkness later if I will have to.
#TEXT   12
I was unspeakably lucky, I have not only found the statue, it is already activated. It is golden and there is a bright ghost star above it. I can use it immediately, or I can remember the current time and prepare better for my upcoming teleportation. @<sText> 
#TEXT   13
I have found Kukulcan among the ship's debris. It was inactive, as I expected. Now I must find out it’s activation time and leave the Island of Justice. @<sText> 
#TEXT   14
I should find Antonio Betancourt, he can tell me about the statue. He lives in flute 'Pluto'.
#TEXT   15
Back to the Island. First, I have to take Danielle to her husband and, of course, visit the 'admiral'. Yes, I also should return the suit to Henrik Vedecker.
#TEXT   16
Antonio told me that the Kukulcan statue becomes active in the morning, not at night. I still don't know the time, but this is enough for me, at least I don't have to dive at night. Morning... is not that big, is it?
#TEXT   17
Jurgen Schmidt, the Narwal blacksmith can make a special blade for me. Only one and very pricey blade though. Thousand doubloons.
#TEXT   18
I have ordered a blade. It will be ready in twenty days.
#TEXT   19
I persuaded Jurgen Schmidt to make a unique broadsword 'Narwal' for Mary. Only for her. Now I must find some 'bottom iron' for it. Dodson and Jurgen said that I can find it only at the bottom of the sea.
#TEXT   20
Seems like I've found what Jurgen was looking for. This is a five pound piece, it should be enough for making the broadsword. I may return to Schmidt.
#TEXT   21
Jurgen will make the broadsword. I should see him in two days with Mary.
#TEXT   22
Mary, Mary, she is one of a kind! She saw Rumba on my ship  and, of course, she got jealous. I offered her to leave the Island with me but he rejected. She said that she will join me only after Helen leaves my crew. Well, I should end this Sharp mess, prove Helen's rights and only then return for  Mary. I won't be able to get rid of Helen earlier anyway.
#TEXT   23
Damn it, that was so plain! Mary got jealous of Helen and wanted to become my officer. I failed to explain her that I can't risk her precious life, so she started to cry, showed me the door and refused to sail with me. It was insane! Blind jealousy, so they say...
#TEXT   24
Mary, Mary, she is one of a kind! She saw Rumba on my ship and, of course, she got jealous. Fortunately, I managed to explain her that Helen is just my partner, that is all. Mary has shown great wish to join my crew and I gladly accepted. She is the ideal woman: beautiful, smart, brave... and she loves me. To be honest, I love her too...
#TEXT   25
Dexter has got enough supplies now, he won't need anymore for the next six months.
#TEXT   26
Henrik Vedecker was glad that I have returned his suit back. He presented me an excellent tool kit. But, I will have to bail 500 000 pesos if I'll want to use the suit again. Well, I can understand that, no offence taken.

#QUEST LSC_Drink
Drink It All
#TEXT	1
Leonard Musket, the local drunkard, has offered me an interesting trick - to check some treasure chest of Giuseppe Fazio. He told me his cunning plan - I should over drink Fazio until he hit the ground. Well, let's try...
#TEXT	2
Fazio offered me to play the 'drink it off' game himself. Mug contest between me and Giuseppe starts today at nine p.m. in the local tavern. I must be there in time or my doubloons are lost for me. I doubt that I will be able to over drink the fat man...
#TEXT	3
Fazio was really tough. I barely over drunk him. Leonard has a the key - we should go to 'Caroline'. I am confident that our plan will work fine - Giuseppe is off until the very morning.
#TEXT	4
Fazio had all reasons to boast - the man is a bottomless barrel… I failed to over drink him and was knocked out right at the table. My doubloons are gone and Leonard's plan is ruined. What a shame...
#TEXT	5
Getting inside 'Caroline' was easy. The key worked and I have opened the chest. All money were shared between me and Leonard.
#TEXT	6
Getting inside 'Caroline' was easy. The key worked and I have opened the chest but I wasn't able to get anything from it. Too bad that our plan failed.
#TEXT	7
I was too slow visiting Fazio' place and Leonard lost any hope to wait for me. Hell with him, my conscience is saved at least...

#QUEST LSC_Ring
The Mystery of the Santa Lucia
#TEXT	1
Richard Shambon, the ex smuggler, has offered me a trip to the outer ring. He has found an 'untouched' pinnace and there are might be some treasures. Trick is, that it is crawling with giant crabs and Shambon is not a fighter. I will deal with crabs and all loot will be shared between two of us.
We will swim there tomorrow, at eight a.m. I should go to the 'squint deck' behind 'San Augustin'. That will be the starting point for our voyage to the outer ring.
#TEXT	2
I was two slow and Richard has gone without me. Alas, our voyage is cancelled...
#TEXT	3
Here are we go! Swimming to the outer ring. Richard will show me the pinnace and I will deal with crabs alone, he won't be able to help me in that. I hope, that there won't be too many of them...
#TEXT	4
The fight wasn't easy but all crabs were slaughtered. Now we may check the cargo hold.
#TEXT	5
There were more crabs on the upper deck. Had to clear it out as well. But the results are quite disappointing so far: no sign of treasures here, nobody needs copra here.
#TEXT	6
Shambon is smart and he has found a hidden cache inside the captain's cabin. 20 000 pesos, two chests filled with gold, jewels and 25 emeralds for each of us. Not but, though Richard was expecting more. I think that our expedition was successful.
#TEXT	7
Such a great adventure we have! Shambon is smart and he has found a hidden cache inside the captain's cabin. 20 000 pesos, two chest filled with gold, jewels and 25 emeralds for each of us. But that is just a start... I've read in the captain's journal that there are a lot of gold inside the pinnace cargo hold. A box filled with gold! Time to find it.
#TEXT	8
We have found the gold of 'Santa Lucia'. A box of gold. Literally. No I am facing a pleasant, but tricky task - to take and hide my share before others find it.
These golden nuggets are making me feel strange... I still remember lines from the captain's journal which were showing me a tragedy of this ship. A misty image of captain and his lover, the Indian girl Vavaya...

#QUEST SharkHunt
Shark Hunt
#TEXT   1
Yes, of course, I was lacking desperate religious fanatics! But there is nothing I can do, I need Zachary anyway.
#TEXT   2
I understand two things after talking with Zachary: first, I have no idea left where to search for the Shark, second, Pastor will vote for Dodson only if we will find him some theosophical book 'Hammer for the Witches' written in English. There is an assumption that Shark is hiding on some 'Island of Justice' North West from Havana but it is too doubtful. We don't know if the Island even exists. But there won't be any point in the book until we find Shark. I should see Swanson, he must help me to solve this riddle.
#TEXT   3
Surprisingly, Swanson supported Zachary's idea that Shark might be on some island at North West of Caribbean sea. He and Pastor saw barques of smugglers or buccaneers sailing in that region before. He doesn't believe in 'Island of Justice' though (Thank God!) but he supposes that it is some sort of a hidden smugglers hideout.
I can learn more from Jose Dios, a Spanish cartographer. I can find him in Santo Domingo.
#TEXT   4
My last hope was vain. Dios had nothing certain to tell me, only hypotheses and guesses. Ah, yes, and he has also given me notes of captain Alvarado. But there are no coordinates, no clues where to search for the mysterious Island. From the other side, why am I thinking that Shark must be there? I am in a rut again, time to see Swanson.
#TEXT   5
Here it is. Island of Justice or, to put it right, Island of  Abandoned Ships. I have already done a lot of things here: made friends with Rivados clan, saved one of their kind, found Steven Dodson, killed Chad Kapper, Shark's ex boatswain and learnt about an attempt on Dodson's life. Now I should see Dodson himself and tell him everything before something bad happens. That black Rivados told me that I can find Shark in 'San Augustin' ship. I should hurry and stay away from other ships, this place is dangerous.
#TEXT   10
I have finally found Dodson. We had a long conversation and Steven has agreed to become a head of the Brethren but we need to get out of this island first. There are no ships to sail here. Shark refused to use Kukulcan statue, besides, there is no sign of it here. So I must solve this problem: find the idol, leave the Island and return back here on the ship. But first, I have to find plotters who are preparing an attempt on Dodson's life. He will give me sailing directions after I deal with this mess.
I suppose, I should start by visiting headquarters of Rivados and talking again with Chimiset.
#TEXT   11
Chimiset said that they may try to shoot Shark when he will be doing his favorite walk around the rear gallery of 'San Augustine'. He may be shot from the platform of 'Furie' or from the bowsprit of 'Santa Florentine'. Long-range and accurate musket is needed to perform such a shot. Chimiset has never seen any weapon like this on the island but it doesn't mean that it couldn't be found here. I should ask locals, perhaps someone heard about such musket. It will serve as a clue to the suspect killer.
#TEXT   12
Merchant told me that long-range and accurate musket exists on the island and it belongs to some Adolf Barbier. Interesting, but some Red Mary and Cyclops Marcello are also interested in this musket. Barbier is often can be seen in the tavern. Let's talk with the man...
#TEXT   13
I didn't find Adolf in the tavern, but I learnt a name of the last man who has seen Barbier. Giuseppe Fazio, he lives on 'Caroline'. Time to pay him a visit.
Sancho told me interesting things: both of them have reasons to hate Shark, Red Mary supposes that he has killed her lover, Alan Milrow, and Marcello hates every pirate. Besides, Cyclops was a royal huntsman, he must be an excellent shooter. Some of them is a sniper I seek. Now I should find Barbier and his rifle...
#TEXT   14
Looks like it is getting clearer now. Adolf Barbier became rich one day, redeemed his rifle and bought a new cabin on 'Santa Florentine'. Chimiset was right, it is an excellent place to shoot from. It means that my guesses about Red Mary and Cyclops were wrong... Well, I should go and shake the truth out of this Adolf..
#TEXT   15
Kind Adolfo' wasn't really kind. He called me a 'psycho' after I tried to accuse him in plotting against the admiral and attacked me. Had to calm him down... Now I should check his corpse and his cabin, perhaps, I will find something interesting. The rifle must be somewhere here too.
#TEXT   16
There was a key and an interesting note on the Adolf's corpse. He wasn't acting on his own. It is all got complicated again... It is possible that Adolf wasn't a killer at all. But who is then? The only way to find it out - is to hide the corpse, stay here and wait until our mysterious visitors will come to see Adolf at midnight for his key.
#TEXT   17
Red Mary and Marcello Cyclops were Barbier's partners in crime. Both of them. We didn't have a chance to talk, Mary had immediately realized who am I and attacked me. I had to kill them. I feel bad for the girl, she was fooled by Chad and died because of his intrigues. He just used her temper and feelings.
Time for corpse checking again - perhaps, I will find more evidences.
#TEXT   18
I have found a letter from Chad Kapper on Mary's body. It is all clear now. I may go to Shark and report him about my success. The plot is revealed and the attempt is prevented.
#TEXT   19
I have finally found Dodson. We had a long conversation and Steven has agreed to become a head of the Brethren but we need to get out of this island first. There are no ships to sail here. Shark refused to use Kukulcan statue, besides, there is no sign of it here. So I must solve this problem: find the idol, leave the Island and return back here on the ship.  In the mean time, I should go to prison on 'Tartarus' and talk with some black wizard named Chimiset, he may help me with my problem.
#TEXT   20
Chimiset told me that Shark is in danger, his own people are preparing an attempt on his life. He also said that Chad Kapper can not be trusted. Well, I should see Dodson and tell him everything.
#TEXT   21
I've told Shark what I learnt from Chimiset. Of course, he didn't really like the news but he wasn't looking really upset. Fine, I should explore the Island, get know its inhabitants, perhaps, I will find out something about the idol of Kukulcan.
#TEXT   22
Steve Dodson asked me to help him - Giuseppe Fazio, the local mediator, appointed a meeting for him at midnight in his cabin on 'Caroline'. Shark thinks that it smells bad and he is probably right due to the recent events. Me and Steven will meet at midnight on 'San Augustine' upper deck.
#TEXT   23
As I feared - it was a trap. As soon as me and Steven entered the cabin, we were attacked by Chad Kapper and some girl in red coat. There were also a few Narwal soldiers with them. Steven died in this unequal fight. Damn it, that is bad! And who will rule the Brethren? Jan mentioned that we may try to use Tyrex... We have got no choice now, Tyrex then. Well, I should talk with Layton Dexter tomorrow morning, no doubt, he will be elected to be an admiral.
#TEXT   24
As I feared - it was a trap. As soon as me and Steven entered the cabin, we were attacked by Chad Kapper and some girl in red coat. There were also a few Narwal soldiers with them. We barely made it and killed all of the attackers.
Chad's treachery and Narwal's meanness have made Steven enraged. I fear, that Narwhals are in trouble now - Shark owns most of provision supplies. Yet, I suppose, that this plot is not that simple. I should conduct a search of Fazio's cabin, I may find some clues to fill the gaps.
#TEXT   25
Conversations with shamans and spirits have their own advantages - it seems that I have mastered a sixth sense. I've found an interesting letter inside Fazio's chest. It seems, that managed to write it and hide it after he was forced to write an invitation to Steven which led us in a trap. Turned out that all of that was planned only by Chad, Mary and a few Narwhals. Hm. I should see Donald Greenspen, the head of Narwhals. We have to talk. His residence is on 'Esmeralda'.
#TEXT   26
Donald's assures me that his clan has nothing to do with an attempt on Dodson's life. Chad and Mary were acting on their own initiative. Narwhals from 'Caroline' were under Mary's command. Donald is ready to offer his apologizes to Shark, especially after Narwhals have learnt that he didn't kill their leader, Alan Milrow. I should go to Steven and persuade him to avoid spoiling difficult relations with Narwhals.
#TEXT   27
It's done. The conflict is settled, Steven is even ready to make peace with the clan. Now I should go to Donald Greenspen and tell him about Dodson's decision.
#TEXT   28
Shark is dead, but life is moving on. Layton Dexter is the admiral now. I have to find Nathaniel Hawk and the Kukulcan portal - no need to stay here any longer.
#TEXT   29
I have managed to leave that wet cargo hold and started to swim around this island of abandoned ships, looking for a place to climb up. At last, I have found an enter inside some old flute, I was fortunate and the door wasn't closed. There was a fight inside, some girl in the red coat was standing against two big guys whose faces were covered by black headscarf's. I interfered in their fight, but, despite of my help, the poor girl was killed. I should check her dead body, perhaps, I will learn a reason why she died.
#TEXT   30
There was a very interesting note. Her name was Mary and she was murdered because she refused to be a lover of some Chad Kapper and to participate in assassination of... isn't that something! Shark Dodson! It means that Steve Dodson, the man I seek, is somewhere here... I must find him as soon as possible, before Chad Kapper do it first.
#TEXT   31
I have managed to leave that wet cargo hold and started to swim around this island of abandoned ships, looking for a place to climb up. At last, I have found an entry inside some old flute, I was fortunate and the door wasn't closed. There was a fight inside, some girl in a red coat was standing against two big guys whose faces were covered by black headscarves. I interfered in their fight and together we have made it. I got acquainted with the girl. Her name is Mary Casper, she is also known as Red Mary.
I have found Shark Dodson against all expectations, turned out that he is here, on this island. His residence is on 'San Augustin'. I must go there immediately, I must warn him about the attempt on his life and treachery of Chad Kapper.
Mary... What a wonderful creation. A unique combination of beauty, femininity, bravery, smartness... She is quite charming, despite of her straightforwardness and some sort of harshness. Even Rumba is faded compared to her. Damn it, what the hell am I writing here, falling in love is not what I need right now!
#TEXT   32
As I expected, Steven has gone insane when I told him about Kapper's treachery. But it didn't stop him from quickly making a smart plan of Chad's elimination by the hands of Rivados clan. I will play the role of diplomat. Well, time to see the leader of Rivados, Black Eddie.
#TEXT   33
Rivados have screwed us after all, they managed to rescue their own but failed to kill Chad. Too bad... We are all in danger until this scum is dead. It would be different if Rivados let me go with them. But what is done, is done. I should go and report to Dodson. Eddie has brought me some notes written by Kapper. I should read them, perhaps, I will learn something useful.
#TEXT   34
Shark wasn't happy about Chad's lucky escape. Of course he wasn't! Well, I have to track him down while Dexter is ordering his men to be attentive. Let's start with Mary, I should show her Chad's letters, she might give me some clues.
#TEXT   35
Mary wasn't helpful, but she told me something. Chad was going to get a barrel of Irish whiskey from Axel Yost, the merchant. That is strange, Mary said that Chad drinks only rum. Marcello Cyclops, the sniper, is also a mystery. I should talk with Axel, he is my only clue.
Damn it, once again, I realize that I am thinking about Mary instead of Chad and how to find him. Dear Mary? That is how I called her? I don't like it...
#TEXT   36
It is true, Kapper has really bought a barrel of rare Irish whiskey from Axel. He was also wondering about arsenic for pesky rats on 'Tartarus'. It is suspicious, why should he care about rats now? He won't get inside 'Tartarus' until Shark is dead. Axel didn't have any arsenic so he sent Chad to Sancho Carpentero, he always fights with rats in his tavern. I should go to Sancho immediately!
#TEXT   37
Kapper didn't dare to show himself in the tavern, it is too close to 'San Augustin'. But on the other hand, Marcello Cyclops has bought arsenic. Whiskey and arsenic. I am starting to realize the plan of these two scums...
#TEXT   38
I have found Barbier's corpse and some Narwal standing upon it in 'Santa Florentina'. He attacked me immediately. These bastards are getting too insolent. There was a note written by Adolf to Cyclops. He tried to blackmail Marcello and now we see the results. False path again, no sign of Cyclops and Chad... Galleon 'Eva' is my last option, it is the only place where they can hide. Sounds silly...
#TEXT   39
Chad Kapper is eliminated and so are all of his Narwal companions. There was no Cyclops among them, all of them had two eyes. I was right, they have poisoned whiskey and delivered it to Shark. I should hurry, perhaps, there is still time...
#TEXT   39_1
Chad Kapper is eliminated and so are all of his Narwal companions. There was no Cyclops among them, all of them had two eyes. I was right, they have poisoned whiskey and delivered it to Shark. Now I should pay a visit to our dear Giuseppe Fazio, that was him, who brought whiskey to Dodson and I will beat everything I need of that fat man.
#TEXT   39_2
Chad Kapper is eliminated and so are all of his Narwal companions. There was no Cyclops among them, all of them had two eyes. Time to return to Dodson, I am sure that somebody has already tried to bring him a 'present'.
#TEXT   40
Shark tried the poisoned whiskey... Thank God, I had a Comanche potion with me - this wonderful elixir has saved Dodson from the death. Time to find Cyclops. I should pay a visit to our dear Giuseppe Fazio, that was him, who brought whiskey to Dodson and I will beat everything I need of that fat man.
#TEXT   41
Shark tried the poisoned whiskey... I failed to save him, he died. Damn it, that is bad! And who will rule the Brethren? Jan mentioned that we may try to use Tyrex... We have got no choice now, Tyrex then.
Kapper is dead, but Cyclops lives. I should pay a visit to our dear Giuseppe Fazio, that was him, who brought whiskey to Dodson and I will beat everything I need of that fat man.
#TEXT   42
Shark tried the poisoned whiskey... I failed to save him, he died. Damn it, that is bad! And who will rule the Brethren? Jan mentioned that we may try to use Tyrex... We have got no choice now, Tyrex then.
Time to end Kapper. He and his fellows are hiding inside 'Eva' according to the Cyclops's note. They must be in the cargo hold.
#TEXT   43
Shark tried the poisoned whiskey... Thank God, I had a Comanche potion with me - this wonderful elixir has saved Dodson from the death. 
Time to end Kapper. He and his fellows are hiding inside 'Eva' according to the Cyclops's note. They must be in the cargo hold.
#TEXT   44
I was just in time! That bastard Chad was about to poison the barrel of whiskey in order to deliver it to Shark later. I killed him and all of his fellows. There was no Cyclops among them, all of them had two eyes. Not I should talk with our precious Giuseppe, who agreed to deliver the poison to an admiral under fear of death.
#TEXT   45
Thank God, I managed to warn Shark that they are going to poison him! A load has been taken off my mind… Now I have to find Kapper and Cyclops, they won't stop until Dodson is dead.
#TEXT   46
It is just getting impossible from hour to hour! Damn Chad has ordered Cyclops to sneak inside Mary's cabin and to kill her. He knows the way to bypass all the locks! Fazio said that he might already be there. I won't swim to her cabin in time, the only way is to run through Narwhal territories. I know the password, it is '@<sParol>'. I must hurry, I must save her! Heading to 'Ceres Smithy'.
#TEXT   47
I've reached 'Ceres Smithy' in time - Cyclops was sneaking through the cargo hold. I found him and killed him. It is alright now, there are all dead, no more threats from Chad and his people.
Mary... Now I may call her my Mary. She is so sweet, direct and open, she is so different from those Paris 'beauties' with their mincing manners! Mary... I suppose, I have never met a better girl than her.
#TEXT   48
I am such an idiot! I've made it in time, Cyclops was sneaking through the cargo hold. I've found him and we started a fight. Mary, that reckless girl, engaged the fight and died. Nonsense! Why didn't I protect her? I've never suffered like this before...
#TEXT   49
It seems that I am late. I have wasted my time and Cyclops must have already killed Mary... I may not save her, but I still have a chance to revenge her death. 
#TEXT   50
I have found Cyclops in Mary's cabin, but she has been already lying dead near his feet. Obviously, he attacked her from behind. I brutally revenged her death but there is nothing left I can do. I can't bring her back. I've never suffered like this before...
#TEXT   51
Marcello Cyclops is hiding somewhere inside caravel 'Fleuron'. Time to go there and to turn it upside down.
#TEXT   52
This scum Cyclops was found inside on of 'Fleuron' chambers. I've killed him, no more threats from Kapper and his people. Now I should rest and see an admiral tomorrow.
#TEXT   53
I've told Shark about Chad's plans and also presented him a barrel of Irish whiskey 'Bushmills'. Dodson gave me an excellent talisman - Thor's hammer.
Steven will be resting tonight with his whiskey and I should see him tomorrow.
#TEXT   54
I've told Shark about Chad's plans. He has taken my words seriously and told me to see him tomorrow.
#TEXT   55
Dodson is angry with Narwhals for participating in his life's attempt. He is even preparing a military operation with Rivados against Narwal clan in order to kill them all. I said that it was a bad idea and asked to let me talk with Donald Greenspen first, I am sure that clan wasn't supporting Chad, it was only a small group.
#TEXT   56
Donald Greenspen assures me that he didn't order his men to hurt Dodson and he is ready to swear it. Well, I knew that Chad was behind all of this, I should talk with Steven now.
#TEXT   57
I have managed to persuade Steven to stop making a war on the Island. Good... I should return to Greenspen.

#QUEST BaronReturn
The Return of the Baron
#TEXT   1
Those bandits from the abandoned mine are quite interesting. Something is very wrong here. Perhaps, Danielle, the wife of Nathaniel, has managed to learn something specific? But where should I look for her?
#TEXT   2
Isn't that something! Danielle was waiting for me right in front of Swanson's residence. Turned out that she had been stalking Jan for a long time, heard our conversation and decided to interfere. I accepted her proposal of partnership. Dannie Hawk will accompany me until we find her husband.
Danielle had been searching for her husband independently for a while and she has got some results. Some Miskito shaman, named Snake Eye, said that Hawk has survived and was captured and escaped. Nobody has seen the man since then. What did shaman mean by saying that Hawk could be 'eaten by Kukulcan'?
I have to see this shaman and find answers for all questions I have. He lives in Indian village in the depth of Main, west from Amatique Bay.
#TEXT   3
Snake Eye told me a lot, but I failed to understand even more. I mean, that it is out of my understanding... Turns out, that this stone statue can move people through time and distance. This Indian must be mad, but he doesn't look that way and something is telling me that he is right, yet my mind still can't accept it. If I want to find Hawk, I must do what he did - to let the statue 'eat me'. As far as I understood, this 'eating' thing is quite dangerous, so first of all, I must get some special Comanche potions, they can heal people even from the worst diseases. Snake Eye is ready to give me three potions in exchange for three amulets: @<sItem1>, @<sItem2>, @<sItem3>.
#TEXT   4
I have got all three potions. The scariest thing ahead: I have to come to the statue at midnight and let it eat me. To be honest, I fear that it won't work. Whatever, let's just hope, it is the only thing we have got. Enough of reasonings, time to see the statue.
#TEXT   5
Impossible! As soon as I've touched the Kukulcan statue, all things went insane, I was thrown inside some half-sunken cargo hold and attacked by a monster - a terrible giant crab. I had to fight it.
It seems that this is the island of ships, which Snake Eye was talking about. Time to get out of the cargo hold and explore the island.
#TEXT   6
I was met by four brave thugs with muskets as soon as I've left the cargo hold. Resistance was futile, so I had to surrender and let them clear up my pockets. It seems that they thought that I am just a thief. Reasoning those idiots was pointless and now I am being taken to their boss named Chad. Perhaps, he will be more manageable?
#TEXT   7
The underwater statue has thrown me away from the Island of Justice right to some Caribs village. Thank God, my suit made them think that I am some sort of a great warrior's spirit. They have decided to offer me to... guess who? To another Kukulcan statue! It is standing near their village. The chief said that it activates in the evening. I have to wait and go through the damn portal again, far away from these bloodthirsty redskins.
#TEXT   8
Indeed, the statue turns 'alive' in the evening. I have got no choice - I have to offer myself to Kukulcan for the third time. I wonder where it will spit me out now?
#TEXT   9
At last, my teleportation marathon is ended. Kukulcan has spit me back to the place where I started my journey. It means that statues teleport things in circle. Danielle met me, she was waiting for me all the time. I've told her about Nathaniel.
Now I should sail to Blueweld, talk with Swanson, prepare an expedition and return to the Island. I need a vessel not larger than rank four. I should also buy as much provisions as possible.
#TEXT   10
I've found Nathaniel Hawk on flute 'Fernanda'. I admit, I imagined the pirate baron differently, but I can understand him, I know that feeling after teleportation. Poor Nathan is feeling really bad: drinking rum, low spirit and giving way to memories. I should hurry and return here on a ship, I fear that he won't last long or will ruin himself with drinking. I believe that Danielle will heal his spirit and Snake Eye will heal his body.
#TEXT   11
Danielle's appearance made a great impact on Nathaniel - he even became a bit younger. Danielle will take him to the ship and then we will go to Snake Eye. He will heal the man.
Danielle and Nathaniel... They have managed to save their love for so many years! I can only envy them.
#TEXT   12
I've told Snake Eye about my trip. He was listening carefully, and supposed that statues are broken because there is no sense in moving people in circles. Shaman said that all statues must send their victims to one special place... Though I don't want to think about it. I will never come close to these statues.
#TEXT   13
Nathaniel was brought to Snake Eye for treatment. Shaman promised to restore Hawk. Well, I will hope. Danielle asked to stay in my crew for a while, until we will find and kill the blood enemy of Hawks - Jacob Jackman.

#QUEST BarbTemptation
Barbazon's Temptation
#TEXT   1
Time to visit Le Francois. Kind Jack rules there and I will try to gain his trust. I will have to play a simpleton or he will never trust me.
#TEXT   2
Here am I, running errands for Barbazon. Looks like, he is unsuspicious about my true intentions and he believes that I am just another idiot begging for his help. Let's remember the coordinates: 21 10' degrees North and 61 30' degrees West.
#TEXT   3
I've found a barque in the are Jaques told me about. It wasn't fishing the fish. It was fishing some goods. They were fishing my silk, it was obvious, so I have sunken their small tub. Well done. I won't get enough silk now.
#TEXT   4
I was too slow and, of course, there are already no silk left. How stupid of me. Now I have to look for it somewhere else.
#TEXT   5
I've found a barque in the are Jaques told me about. It wasn't fishing the fish. It was fishing some goods. They were fishing my silk, it was obvious, so I boarded their small tub. There are nine bales of silk, not six as I was told. What should I do? Tell Jaques the truth or to leave three bales for myself?
#TEXT   6
I've found a barque in the are Jaques told me about. It wasn't fishing the fish. It was fishing some goods. They were fishing my silk, it was obvious, so I've scared its captain and all silk was loaded in my vessel. There are nine bales of silk, not six as I was told. What should I do? Tell Jaques the truth or to leave three bales for myself?
#TEXT   7
At last, it smells like a serious business. Looks like somebody is in need of some fool to be his cat's paw. Time to take initiative in my hands.
#TEXT   8
Such an interesting letter! Well, working for Barbazon wasn't for nothing!
It seems that Jacob Jackman himself wrote this letter. He and his late brother had great plans. I hope that Jacob will join his brother soon. Whoever his boos is, but he is much smarter if he bet on English. Jackman was fool to play with barons alone.
Looks like Jacob is planning a trap for Tyrex.  As far as I understood, the ship is loaded with gunpowder and it will be blown up by snipers from the shore as soon as Marcus gets there.
Those who survived, will be killed by Vampire's and Scum's men. And by mine men, of course. My name is David Fackman also known as the Knave. I need his polacre 'Marlin'. I will use it to meet Jackman's men and if, I lucky, the man himself. Perhaps, I should capture Scum's ship, there must be some interesting documents. I won't worry Tyrex now, it seems that he is a quick-tempered man, I don't want him to spoil everything.
#TEXT   9
Polacre 'Marlin' is captured. It should help me a lot, because I will be able to approach Jackman's ship closer without alerting them. Time to prepare my ship and sail to Turks, I have to spoil Jackman's plans.
#TEXT   10
'Marlin' was sunken during a fight. Damn it, that is poor! I won't be able to approach Jackman's ship unnoticed. Well, perhaps I should find another polacre, rename it and try to fool them...
#TEXT   11
I am sailing near Turks but there is no sign of my enemy... Strange, perhaps my squadron has frightened them. I should sail here alone, on a polacre named 'Marlin' - only then I will have a chance to end this gang.
#TEXT   12
Well-well... I can see the brigantine, it is standing in a gulf, sales are unset. No sign of corvette 'Devilfish' and frigate 'Merciless'. I don't like this calm before the storm..
#TEXT   13
The pirate ambush is eliminated, they were supposed to blow the ship up. It is safe now, I may go aboard and see what is going on there.
#TEXT   14
Damn it! Here they are... I can see frigate and corvette at the other side of the island, North Bay. I have to destroy them all and board Scum's corvette, I might find there useful papers. They know 'Marlin', so, I suppose, they won't shoot first. But I must visit 'Separator', perhaps someone needs help there.
#TEXT   15
I have freed Bernard Vensan, a captain of 'Separator',  and ordered him to sail away from Turks, his ship won't help me in the upcoming fight anyway. Now I have to round the island and destroy Vampire and Scum. Damn, a single polacre versus corvette and frigate?.. But there is a way to get a rid of the frigate - my smart girl @<sName>  proposed a wise tactical move. Pirates don't suspect 'Marlin', so we can approach them and throw a big barrel of gunpowder near the frigate, light the fuse and sail away. That's a plan. I will try to blow the frigate and board the corvette... I wish that they won't realize who we really are.
#TEXT   16
@<sText> We won, all bastards are dead, the corvette was boarded. I have found a letter there written by Jackman. It seems that he will be cruising near Isla Tesoro, waiting for his dear brother. Well, I am going to pay him a visit.
#TEXT   17
@<sText> We won, all pirates are dead, but I've lost all trails to Jackman's location. I've no idea where to find him, but there must a way! I should ask someone for an advice...
#TEXT   18
Me and Danielle had a talk about Jacob and she really helped me out. Knives' letter gave me some clues where to find Jackman - he will be cruising near Isla Tesoro, waiting for his dear brother. Well, it's time to pay him a visit. Our heroic 'Marlin' will serve me again, other ships may warn Jacob.
#TEXT   19
I am sailing near Isla Tesoro but I don't see any sign of Jackman... It seems that this bastard is hiding. I should come here alone, on a polacre named 'Marlin' and, perhaps, this will make Jacob leave the shadows. 
#TEXT   20
I have found Jackman. A polacre versus frigate - this is unfair, especially considering my intentions to board 'Centurio'. The ship is crawling with mercs and I don't like their ferocious faces. There are no newbie's in Jackman's crew, that's for sure. Well, let's hope that 'Marlin' will let us to approach them close enough. I am sure that fooling Jackman won't be easy... @<sText>
#TEXT   21
Yeah, I am lucky to have such a smart girl in my crew... Her idea is complicated, but I am going to try it. We have to approach as close as possible to them and throw few barrels, filled with gunpowder and grapeshot, on their upper deck. It will work only if pirates won't reveal our true intentions. Eh, I wish I had more secrecy today...
#TEXT   22
Damn it, we did it! Our fougasses have cleared out every living from the deck and ruined their morale. Now it's time to board them!
#TEXT   23
I have sunken 'Centurio' with all evidences and my hopes to fulfill Swanson's mission.
#TEXT   24
The tough fight is behind. 'Centurio' is taken and returned back to Danielle. Jackman is eliminated. His chests was filled by evidences:
- an Indian shard which belongs to Hawk, it proves that Jackman was the one who organized an attack on Nathaniel
- a note with password for bandits from the abandoned mine, it is another evidence explains why Hawk's people were ambushed and how Jackman was able to solve problems with bandits that fast.
- half of the map which was a property of Blaze Sharp, now all suspicions will be taken away from Shark! And Jackman was insisting that he didn't kill Blaze… I have got both parts of the map and Helen will get her island
Moreover, I have found an English version of 'Hammer for the Witches', looks like Jackman's agents work faster than Swanson's men... 
And now it is time to visit all three barons: Tyrex, Barbazon and Zachary Marlow. I am confident about Marlow and Tyrex, but Barbazon requires some pressure...
I am curious what are they guarding at that abandoned mine and who actually owns it? It seems that Jackman was some sort of an administer there. I think that Swanson will be interested finding out the truth.
#TEXT   25
Marcus Tyrex gave his Indian shard.
#TEXT   26
I had a short negotiation with Jaques Barbazon and he gave me his Indian shard.
#TEXT   27
Black Pastor gave me his Indian shard in exchange for the book which he was so eager to get.

#QUEST Testament
Sharp's Testament
#TEXT   1
The time has come. I should prove Helen's rights to own Isla Tesoro, it is the last demand of Jan Swanson in exchange for helping me with my Tortuga business. Jan decided to hire a lawyer and I agree with him. Sharp's map will be a big surprise for English authority and it would foolish to loose everything because of some extra squiggle.
#TEXT   2
Albert Loxley demanded 450 doubloons for his services. And this is only an advance payment! Damn it, I had enough of paying for everything from my own pocket. I am going back to Swanson, to let him pay. After all, I am not doing it for myself.
#TEXT   3
Same story again, all dirty work goes to me. I am getting used to it, you know… Now I have to chase East Indiaman 'Oyster' commanded by Paul Molligan, Jan claims that Paul has stolen ironwood from him. If this is true, then I should get rid of Molligan. I can sell ironwood myself or I can bring it back to Swanson. Yeah, and I also should capture 'Oyster' for him, he has put his eye on it.
#TEXT   4
Damn it! I failed to find Molligan's East Indianman. Well... Now I have to pay the lawyer myself.
#TEXT   5
I am an idiot! I have sunk Molligan and I don't know is he guilty or not. Perhaps, I have just sunk a load of ironwood I seek. Damn it… Now I will have to pay the lawyer myself.
#TEXT   6
'Oyster' was captured. The ironwood is inside its cargo hold. Well, the rat was punished and I may deal with the cargo now. @<sText>
#TEXT   7
Molligan believes I am a fool... His ship's draught is showing me that there are plenty of free space in his vessel. He don't want to let others inside his cargo holds and his little eyes began to bustle when I mentioned Swanson's name. He has stolen the ironwood. @<sText> I have to board 'Oyster'!
#TEXT   8
I have found a heavy galleon. It seems that it is the buyer I am looking for but he is alerted for some reason and no deal happened. Whatever. I am going back to Swanson, let him to sell all ironwood himself.
#TEXT   9
I have sold ironwood to the mysterious buyer - some Dutch named Michael Rosenkraft. The price was 40 doubloons for each piece, not bad. In total, I made @<sSum> doubloons. Thousand and a half will be paid to the lawyer and the rest will be shared between me and Swanson - @<sSum1> doubloons each.
#TEXT   10
All documents and money were given to the lawyer. Me and Helen should see him tomorrow.
#TEXT   11
All Helen's rights were proven in the court, all documents were given to the new owner of the island. I was surprised by her sudden change, she has become completely different. Was she hit by new horizons and ambitions, or, perhaps, she is angry on me because of her father? I don't know. This story gave me a feeling that I was simply used in order to reach own goals.
Whatever, God will judge her, not me. I have fulfilled my mission, now I am going back to Swanson: he has no reasons left to refuse helping me in killing Levasseur and taking Tortuga.
#TEXT   12
All Helen's rights were proven in the court, all documents were given to the new owner of the island. She has left my crew, Helen have to get used to her new role. I have fulfilled my mission, now I am going back to Swanson: he has no reasons left to refuse helping me in killing Levasseur and taking Tortuga. But first, I will return to Island of Justice, my beloved Mary is waiting for me!
#TEXT   13
All Helen's rights were proven in the court, all documents were given to the new owner of the island. I have fulfilled my mission, now I am going back to Swanson: he has no reasons left to refuse helping me in killing Levasseur and taking Tortuga. Despite of her Inheritage, Helen decided to stay in my crew. At last we have explained to each other! We had to walk all that long way together to understand that our destinies are bounded forever...

#QUEST Shadows
Shadows of the Past
#TEXT   1
Isn't that something! Wise Nicolas has outsmarted himself. It would be funny if Helen will be left without her island because of some foolish annotation and Sharptown will become an English military base. Heading to St.John's! Raymond Baker is the only clue left by poor Hangman.
#TEXT   2
There is a vessel at St.John's port named 'Callow Maggy'. I should talk with its captain, he must know where to find Baker.
#TEXT   3
I must hurry. 15 28' degrees North and 63 28' degrees West. Hold on, Baker! My fair wind is your luck now.
#TEXT   4
I managed to find Baker's barque. Poor man was brought aboard, he got a glass of rum and he is ready to speak with me in my cabin.
#TEXT   5
Such an insane day! So many news!
Baker is smart, that's for sure. I have been always suspecting that loving exact sciences won't do any good. I wonder what my brother would say...
Helen has got a history. Turns out that her father, Butcher, is alive. That is what Hangman was talking about! He knew that for all twenty years... He's called Lawrence Beltrop now. The Lawrence Beltrop from Port Royale, Jackman's 'master'. Interesting. So, what value holds this information for me?
I suppose, the only value holds a longitude under bloodthirsty Jessica's poems. I bet that it is the coordinates  of the island where Helens mother died. It is a pity that latitude is unreadable. The island must a creepy place! I won't take the girl there, even though I've promised her. Who knows, what awaits on that damn island.
The tooth was belonging to Shark, S.D. - this means Steven Dodson. I suppose, I should visit new head of pirates on Isla Tesoro. I hope that he will be able to clear up something for me. Especially concerning the Mask and Jessica.
#TEXT   6
It is good to have a lot of friends! My brother was right, connections and relations can solve everything. Now I know the latitude. 21 32' North. It took me a week to do what Blaze Sharp was doing for twenty years -  I have found a place where Beatrice died. I have to find a grave of Helen's mother. Let's hope that her corpse wasn't looted and I will be able to find some papers for lawyer. I don't like being tomb raider but I don't have a choice.
Perhaps, I could talk to Swanson first, some extra information about Jessica, the Beatrice's murderer could be helpful.
#TEXT   7
I have found the island. I don't like this place, though I don't see anything threatening here. Obviously, somebody had been living here before - old ruins of a small house and suspension bridge testify that this island was inhabited once. But I don't understand how anyone could choose such place for living.
I have found an old grave here. I don't need to dig, somebody did it before. It's empty, there is also a coffin with remains standing near it. No papers, no documents, not a single ring or cross. Perhaps, my voyage was for nothing... Though something is telling me that this deserted reef is hiding what I'm seeking. A key to prove Helen's origins.
I've spent here only a few hours, but this place makes me feel strange. Fear, ghastly animal fear. If it wasn't for Helen, I would have already run away from here. The grave is making me feel cold, despite of the heat. Skeletons don't bright up the picture around me. In addition, I can fight with the feeling that I am been watched, by someone invisible. I am sure that I am not alone here...
#TEXT   8
Damn me and my self-sufficiency! I got used to rely on my sword and myself and decided to visit this creepy reef at night. Alone, without my officers! And I barely survived...
My instincts were right. I wasn't alone here and I had all reasons to fear this place. It is strange that my mind didn't go mad... I have met a living corpse near the grave. Jessica Rose, the killer of Beatrice, she died twenty years ago. This is the most fearsome creature I've ever seen in my nightmares. And she attacked me.
The most horrible fight in my life. I had to fight with an army of undead and Jessica has almost ruined me with her curses. I barely dealt with Jessica and her 'minions'.
I have found what I was looking for on the second time dead corpse of Jess. A letter written by Beatrice Sharp to her brother Blaze. Now I have got all evidences to prove Helen's origins.
Jess died and that creepy atmosphere has gone. I should bury her remains, read some prayers, do a sermon, perhaps, this will help the poor soul to find peace. And I have to think about healing myself, Jess has turned me in disabled person. I suppose that only holy fathers can help me in this matter...
#TEXT   9
Damn me and my self-sufficiency! I got used to rely on my sword and myself and decided to visit this creepy reef at night. Alone, without my officers! And I barely survived...
My instincts were right. I wasn't alone here and I had all reason to fear this place. It is strange that my mind didn't go mad... I have met a living corpse near the grave. Jessica Rose, the killer of Beatrice, she died twenty years ago. This is the most fearsome creature I've ever seen in my nightmares. And she attacked me.
The most horrible fight in my life. I had to fight with an army of undead and Jessica has almost ruined me with her curses. I barely dealt with Jessica and her 'minions'. Jessica begged for my mercy and I agreed to listen to her. It wasn't easy to stop my hand from ending her 'life' but I recalled her sad story.
Jess asked me to take her to Jamaica, and to land her at Portland Bay at night. She is going to pay a visit to her ex captain, lover and killer - Lawrence Beltrop. Beltrop is my enemy and their meeting won't likely be peaceful, so I agreed. Besides, Jess promised to give me what I'm seeking. She also promised to explain me how to heal myself and take off her curses which made me disabled. Though she sworn that she woldn't harm my crew and Helen, I suppose that the daughter of Beatrice should live in my cabin until we reach Jamaica. I will be watching over her.
#TEXT   10
We have reached Jamaica. It was hard to sail with Jess, her presence makes you think that the death itself living on your ship.
I should land at the bay next night to meet Jessica.
#TEXT   11
Jessica and Lawrence had their last meeting. I can't imagine what was he feeling before he died... But I don't think that I feel bad for him.
Jessica has kept her promise and gave me what I was looking for: a letter written by Beatrice Sharp to her brother Blaze. Now I have all evidences to prove Helen's origins. I also received a legendary flame-bladed sword. I should sail to Bridgetown, see the local priest and ask for his help in the name of Jessica. I also should prepare twenty candles.
Obviously, killing Beltrop was some sacred Jessica's vow. It was keeping her in the world of living for twenty years. It is expired now, so I did what she asked. I buried her body at Portland Bay, put a simple cross above it and read a prayer. I hope that her poor and suffering soul will find peace at last.
#TEXT   12
Night spent inside the church ended with a strange vision, it was so real that I still can't get it. I've met Jessica at some wonderful place. She was young, beautiful and alive, just like twenty years ago... My prayers have brought long-awaited conciliation to her and healed my body.

#QUEST alex_clock
My Boss Wants A Ship
#TEXT   1
Shipmaster of Isla Tesoro, Alexus, asked me to collect and bring him materials he needs to build a frigate for the new head of pirates. He needs 200 pieces of ironwood, 35 doubloons for each, 250 tanks of resin, 12 doubloons for each tank, 220 rolls of ship silk, 24 doubloons for a roll and 180 tiers of hemp ropes, 13 doubloons for each tier.
#TEXT   2
@<sQty> of @<sGood> left.
#TEXT   3
All @<sGood> was delivered to master Alexus.
#TEXT   4
So, uninvited guests weren't talkative enough and I had to show them the door... to hell. I have found the metal box. Though this sly old man has locked it and my key doesn't fit to it. I may return.
#TEXT   5
Alexus presented me an excellent chronometer. I can't even imagine who could create such a miracle: all chronometers I used before can't be compared to this one. I hope that I will find a worthy way to use such an excellent tool.
#TEXT   6
Four months to collect materials expired. Too bad that I failed to do this in time... Whatever, it is not a heavy loss.

#QUEST Terrapin
Turtle Soup
#TEXT   1
Well, it looks like I have an opportunity to organize a little palace revolution. Some Thibaut, the Levasseur's nephew, is probably interested in eliminating his uncle. But first, I should gather some aces to use against him. I have to find his partner, Rober Martene, and to learn more about the girl the have hidden from Levasseur - Molly Jones.
#TEXT   2
Asking about Jones has led me to colonel Fox's batman, Benjamin Jones. Well, I should visit this old soldier. As far as I remember, Fox is living in the local governor's residence.
#TEXT   3
Really? Molly Jones is not pretty, and she is in England now. Mysteries and riddles. That drunkard Fernand Lucas has definitely missed something...
#TEXT   4
Ha! Poor Lucas was shut down forever, just as I feared. But we have another important character on the scene - Rober Martene himself. I am going to push this scum. Carefully. After all, I am aware about some of his deeds.
#TEXT   5
Smooth and easy! I managed to arrange a deal with Martene. Now I should visit Thibaut on Tortuga. I hope that he will be reasonable to let his passion go.
#TEXT   6
Smooth and easy! I managed to arrange a deal with Martene. I may sail to Tortuga now, or I may try too see Shark first and tell him everything I've learnt. Perhaps, he will share an advice with me.
#TEXT   7
Shark did great. What would I do without him? It looks like Martene has captured Katherine Fox, a daughter of colonel Fox, and he is unaware about her real identity. Well, time to make a mess in this nest of vipers! Let's start with finding Thibaut. We'll see what this concubine lover will tell me...
#TEXT   8
It's done! Now I should go to a tavern and wait for Martene's messenger.
#TEXT   9
My plan is working! Levasseur will be there in an hour. I'd better hurry before the bird escapes a trap.
#TEXT   10
It's done. Killing Levasseur was much easier than I imagined. Much, much easier than gaining trust of Swanson and Shark. But, I admit, I would have never done this if it wasn't them.
Now I can return to de Poincy. That old fox won't dare to refuse to release my dear brother. Soon I will return back to Europe. Paris is waiting for me!
Paris? No feeling of happiness or rejoice. Michel was right... Caribs has changed me, I am different now, I am a man. Perhaps, my place is here now?
#TEXT   11
It's done. Killing Levasseur was much easier than I imagined. Much, much easier than gaining trust of Swanson and Shark. But, I admit, I would have never done this if it wasn't them.
Now I should take Kathie to Antigua and then I may return to de Poincy. That old fox won't dare to refuse to release my dear brother. Soon I will return back to Europe. Paris is waiting for me!
Paris? No feeling of happiness or rejoice. Michel was right... Caribbean has changed me, I am different now, I am a man. Perhaps, my place is here now?
#TEXT   12
I was attacked by that scum Martene as soon as I put to sea. Traitor! But I preferred to sail away, Levasseur is dead, I will deal with Rober next time in the more appropriate conditions.
#TEXT   13
I was attacked by that scum Martene as soon as I put to sea. Traitor! I boarded his ship and sent the bastard to hell where he belongs.
I have found an interesting message inside Martene's cabin. A message from Cromwell himself about English military squadron which will arrive to Belize soon. The goal is to scare the Dutch off. I must think about this information, perhaps, I might find a way to use it.
#TEXT   14
I was attacked by that scum Martene as soon as I put to sea. Traitor! I have sent the bastard to hell right where he belongs.
#TEXT   15
My voyage to Antigua was too long and Kathie died of tropical fever. What a shame...
#TEXT   16
I was too slow, no doubt, I won't find Fernand Lucas there. I've lost my clue and I am the only man to blame. Pity, I will have to storm Tortuga myself in old fashioned military way...
#TEXT   17
I was too slow sailing to Tortuga. I've lost my clue and I am the only man to blame. Pity, I will have to storm Tortuga myself in old fashioned military way...
#TEXT   18
I've lost an excellent chance to kill Levasseur quietly and I am the only man to be blamed. Pity, I will have to storm Tortuga myself in old fashioned military way...

#QUEST Guardoftruth
Seeking for the Guardian of Truth
#TEXT   1
I didn't expect that! My dear brother has disappeared. He only left some strange letter for me. But I don't believe that Michel has just gone mad. He is wrong to think that I will return back to Europe just like that. I am still waiting his thanks for saving him from the dungeons.
Despite of all odd insinuations of abbot Benoit, I am sure that Michel is going to continue his adventure with that Indian gold. He mentioned it once. It looks like there a lot of gold, my brother is a resourceful man and he won't work for some trifles. I don't really care about gold, though, I admit, it'll do, I want to talk with my brother who showed me that I am just a pawn in his game, a pawn which only purpose was to get him out of jail.
What should I do first? Who knows Michel best? Philippe de Poincy, no doubt. But I don't think that this old fox will show me cards. I'd better visit the underground base and ask the officer, the Maltese must know anything about my brother!
#TEXT   2
I didn't get a lot from the officer. Except facts I already know, he told me that Michel and de Poincy was working together against Spanish, capturing their ships loaded with treasures. Hm. But why chevalier got so angry on my brother? For what? For a single fail? That transport must had been really important. Perhaps, Michel was just disappointed about all that injustice and decided to escape in peace? To break off with his past? No... My own experience says no. My brother is not some sentimental girl, but a wise strategist and a soldier. Does he fear de Poincy's revenge? No... He has got all he desired, and if he wanted to kill Michel, he would see it done immediately. There is something different... Fine, I'd better interrogate the Spanish captive.
#TEXT   3
And here I am, drawing into some mess again. The only difference is that I am doing it on my will now. Spanish told me enough... Just think about my brother, huh? I hope to reach his gold before he leaves the archipelago. I suppose that I've got enough time, it doesn't seem that the gold was well hidden, because it doesn't fit with recent events. It's not that obvious...
I will think about it in the mean time. Now I have to instruct the Spanish, I've got a plan ready.
#TEXT   4
My plan is very simple and, in the same time, it is very complex: I need to gain trust of an inquisitor of Santiago, father Vincento himself! There is no point in hiding my true name, he is not a man of primitive games. I will tell him the truth and let's hope on his greed. Let it overwhelm his mistrust. If I am lucky, he will tell me a lot, particularly, the information about Tayasal. This will help in my searches.
Heading to Cuba. I won't land in Santiago, it is too risky. I will land at Santa Maria Bay, it is close to the town gates. My Spanish captive will serve as my messenger to father Vincento.
#TEXT   5
My messenger has gone with a letter to father Vincento. I am offering him my assistance in exchange for a cut. I also wrote about Ramon Mendoza and Miguel Dichoso - he must understand my awareness about Indian gold. I'll wait for a reply and hope that father Vincento will agree to work with an enemy of his nation.
#TEXT   6
Of course! First of all, Father Vincento proposed me to work for the good of Roman Catholic Church and for his own good. I must find some French privateer, not British, not Dutch, but French. This privateer attacked Spanish galleon and stole some priceless church plates. I must find and bring this privateer in the kind hands of holy inquisition. I also must return church plates. It is obvious, that doing this will give him great discrediting evidences against me, because I will be working against my own countrymen under the banner of Spain! Damn it, father Vincento truly owns his title...!!
Though, I ain't got a choice. Let's start with finding this unlucky privateer. We will see then. I must dig some information about this galleon named 'Santa Margarita'. Was it captured near Hispaniola shores? Let's start digging there then...
#TEXT   7
Nobody heard about the ship in Port-au-Prince. I have got no reasons to don't trust the innkeeper, why would he lied? But where is the galleon? I doubt that my privateer would drag it through the whole archipelago somewhere to Martinique. I should continue searching in this area... 
#TEXT   8
I've got a trail. 'Santa Margarita' was captured by some Gaius Marchais and brought to Tortuga. Barman said that the ship was put in docks. Well, I should ask people there...
#TEXT   9
So, 'Santa Margarita' turned into 'Admirable', and privateer Gaius Marchais is now merchant Gaius Marchais. Funny. And where did our newborn trader go?
#TEXT   10
Marchais trails lead to Philipsburg. I have to sail there immediately.
#TEXT   11
Gaius had unshipped in Philipsburg's shop and his current location is unknown. For now. A man on a galleon can not disappear like that. I should continue asking people...
#TEXT   12
Trails lead to Barbados. I have to sail there...
#TEXT   13
Gaius Marchais really was here, in Bridgetown. I must find out where did he sail next. Harbormaster was unable to help me in that, I should look for information in other places.
#TEXT   14
Seems like the end of the ride. Our newborn merchant has made a blunder. Well, I hope that I will catch him in Basse-Terre.
#TEXT   15
Well, well... At last, I have chased my client. His galleon 'Admirable' is here. Now I have to find a way to capture its captain and to check his cabin somehow. I wish I find there church plates. Direct assault won't work, I am not an idiot to attack French ship right in the port. Let's start with visit Gaius Marchais aboard his ship.
#TEXT   16
Fame and glory are great, of course, yet not in my current position. Gaius's boatswain recognized 'A hero of Saint Pierre' as soon as I've got aboard... A single mistake of mine - and all Caribbean will learn who has kidnapped Marchais. It won't to make more popular and de Poincy won't be happy about me.
So, here is what we've got: Gaius Marchais is sitting in a tavern and waiting for those famous merchants, his galleon lying out and a complete uncertainty. This damn looser trader may stay here for a year and I won't be able to do anything: I can't attack his galleon and I can't capture the man right in the town. I must think of making Gaius to leave Basse-Terre and, perhaps, alone in the sea, no witnesses... But the idiot is not going to leave this place until he sells his vanilla. What should I do?
#TEXT   17
Suddenly, I came up to idea - I saw carraca at the port, got know its captain, who turned out to be Spanish and proposed him to buy vanilla from Marchais. Carlos assured me that the deal will take place. He will make his own profits from this deal after all. I will get Gaius as soon as he sells his cargo and sails to the open sea.
#TEXT   18
Carlos has managed to arrange the deal. The cargo will be transshipped on his carraca at Casper Bay tomorrow at midday. I should rise up anchors and sail to Unapproachable cape - let them think that I've left Guadeloupe. Nobody will think that I have something to do with Marchais's disappearance.
#TEXT   19
That's the reason why 'Admirable' is still here! The town is crawling with drunken sailors from the galleon, obviously, he has paid them their wage from my pocket. Looks like there are only a few watches left on the ship, I should use this chance and get aboard. Then I will sneak into the captain quarters and kidnap Gaius. Heavy risk, but the prize... Nobody shall suspect me in this.
#TEXT   20
My plan has worked just perfectly.  Gaius was put into the cabin as a valuable prisoner, guarded and in chains. I imagine, how sailors of 'Admirable' will be surprised when they return back on their ship... But I am clear of suspicions, that is the most important thing.
Luckless privateer refused to tell me about church plates. I didn't find any of them in his cabin, it means that he has already sold them. He will speak eventually. Inquisition can loosen people's tongues easily. Sailing to Cuba, to Santiago's lighthouse, I should give my prisoner to the inquisitor and take my vanilla.
#TEXT   21
Gaius Marchais was delivered, I also wrote a letter to father Vincento about 'Santa Margarita' and asked him to help in finding out the location of church plates. I am confident in methods of holy fathers, no doubt, poor Gaius will tell them everything he knows. I should wait two days for the answer.
#TEXT   22
Father Vincento gave me the information I needed, just as I expected. Now I have to visit a usurer from Willemstad and a church of Basse-Terre.
#TEXT   23
A banker of Curacao told me that a golden censer was bought by some pirate named Rollie the Cap, who was captured soon by colonel Fox. He is probably drying already under the hot sun of St.John's. I should ask Fox about censer, perhaps, his men have confiscated it.
Ostensory was bought by some senora Belinda de Ribero of Cumana, relative to a governor himself. It's just getting better and better...
#TEXT   24
Colonel Fox told me that golden censer with other Rollie's 'stuff' could be hidden somewhere on Dominica. I don't have any more clues, I have to search the island's secluded places, I may find something...
#TEXT   25
I have found a hidden stash in the secret grotto with Rollie's savings, there also was the golden censer I seek.
#TEXT   26
Turned out, that I wasn't the one who tried to find Rollie's stuff. One of the Fox marines officer was doing the same. He didn't like that I have taken the lead, so he and his men attacked me immediately. I had to fight back.
#TEXT   27
My appeals to a priest of Basse-Terre were for nothing, holy father refused to give up a golden cross, presented by Marchais. I have to find someone very authoritative in the town and persuade him to push on a priest. I want him to find strengths to part with the valuable gift...
#TEXT   28
A governor didn't live up my expectations. Pity. Who else may I ask for help? There must be a man able to put holy father to shame!
#TEXT   29
Sometimes I feel grateful to my brother... It's good that he made me meet Fadey! Muscovite is going to solve my problems, not for free, of course. As far as I remember, he likes golden doubloons. I should take a few hundreds of them for out tomorrow meeting...
#TEXT   30
I've got the golden cross with lazurite. Though, it was pretty pricey... Whatever, life it is.
#TEXT   31
Belinda de Ribero has mistaken me for an Jesuit and ready to give me the ostensory. But, first, I will do this worthy senora a favor - to deliver a ransom for her good friend. Let this service be a payment for the ostensory. I have to go to the enter of the cave between 23 and 24 p.m. I know how to deal with marginals.
#TEXT   32
Esteban Sosa has managed to kidnap himself... such a rascal! I didn't kill him, it will make senora Belinda unhappy, though she will be unhappy anyway. I have to claim my ostensory.
#TEXT   33
I've got the golden ostensory. Great!
#TEXT   34
It's done! I've received an invitation and a letter of credence from the inquisitor himself! I am heading to Santiago immediately.
#TEXT   35
I had a conversation with father Vincento. I've learnt a lot of very odd information... According to the inquisitor, all Christian world is in a danger of some evil, this evil is somehow connected with Indians Maya-Iza  and treasures which were taken by Miguel Dichoso from Tayasal. There is something in those treasures which can stop the evil. Easy enough and so convenient! I see now how holy people make their fortunes, fighting with evil seems profitable... Though I admit, he was talking about this ancient evil very seriously. I am lost in riddles. I don't think that he believed in my loyalty to Roman Catholic Church, but there is nothing for me to worry about while our goals are same.
And concerning my new task... @<sText>
#TEXT   36
So, I've found Gino Gvineili in St.John's. He lives in John Murdock's place. I will try to draw him out.
#TEXT   37
Isn't that something! Gino said that our world is close to its end. Kukulcan itself is going to wipe away our reality by changing the past. Perhaps, Gino has been breathing from his flasks for too long and gone mad, but this means that father Vincento's mind is also damaged, and that is the most unlikely. So I have to find other two components of Guardian of Truth, the compass and the map. Then I have to search for that mysterious Ksocheatem island.
Some Archibald Calhoun owns the compass. And the map belongs to inquisition... I should ask father Vincento about it, very carefully.
#TEXT   38
It seems that father Vincento has trusted me and believes that Gino is dead. Well, that's better for all of us! I wonder how long would he last in the hand of the inquisition? A day, two days or a week?
The map 'of Two Appearances' is in the hands of Ramon de Mendoza and so are all others belonging of Ksatl Cha. Pity, that is not good! This cabaliero is unreachable for now... all in good time. Now I have to head to Trinidad, the last place where a frigate of Miguel Dichoso was seen.
#TEXT   39
According to the local harbormaster -Miguel Dichoso really was in San Jose on his frigate 'Santa Quiteria'. His was planning to sail to Cadiz, to Europe. I have to continue asking all people who have connections with the sea, perhaps, someone will tell me something useful.
#TEXT   40
The local innkeeper remembers the arrival of Miguel Dichoso at San Jose, he was sulky and moody, all his men were professional fighters. That is all I have learnt.
#TEXT   41
At last, I've found out something interesting. A light-house keeper told me an interesting story about Miguel Dichoso and his frigate. My worst fears come true: the Indian gold was on the ship and it's cursed. Trying to leave Caribbean with it causes a storm which drags the vessel to Ksocheatem. Perhaps, Gino was right.
It seems that Miguel Dichoso is dead, and his gold is lying either at the bottom of the sea, or at the shores of Ksocheatem. But how does it connect with my brother? It's nonsense.
Two interesting facts, I've learnt from a light-house keeper:
1. Diego de Montoya, the commander of the squadron which stormed Saint-Pierre, is also interested in Miguel and his frigate.
2.  The storm was drawing 'Santa Quiteria'  from Trinidad to Martinique.
So, perhaps, Diego thought that Dichoso is in Saint-Pierre? Riddles again. I must find Ksocheatem first, if, of course, it exists for real. What should I do next? I'd better see father Vincento and tell him about Diego. He may arrange a meeting with this Spanish.
#TEXT   42
I had a strange meeting near the lighthouse: I was stopped by Spanish patrol, they have checked my letter of credence, signed by father Vincento, and patrol officer has shown a great interest to my dagger and offered to sell it for a great sum of golden coins. Of course, I refused to sell it. Too many weapon collectors are stalking around the archipelago, I don't like it. I must be careful.
#TEXT   43
I had a talk with father Vincento and it was pointless, it seems that he is stuck too. I should see him in a week, perhaps, he will tell me some good news.
I still think, that I have to search for Diego de Montoya: he knows about Dichoso much more than me and father Vincento, he is also close to baron de Mendoza, who owns a component of Guardian of Truth - the map. I won't find mysterious Ksocheatem without it. I am starting to believe in what Ksatl Cha said...
#TEXT   44
This time I was lucky to meet my ex captive Spanish officer. He told me that Diego  is going to sail somewhere to Western Main from Havana. Time to sail to Havana and try intercepting him if I would have a chance.
#TEXT   45
Some serious looking scums tried to rob me. That is something new for me. What exactly did he want? Perhaps, this is my rare daggers 'collector' from Trinidad?
#TEXT   46
I've reached Havana but I don't see any squadron. I won't sail right to the port, I'd better land at Batabano Bay without drawing the attention. It is close to the town, so I will be able to ask locals about Diego and his squadron. My letter of credence won't impress guards, but it will do for commoners.
#TEXT   47
The innkeeper has given me full information about Diego's location suspiciously easy. Do they really respect Jesuit brothers that much? It seems, that Montoya is repairing his ship somewhere at San Antonio cape, it is the southern point of Cuba. I have to land there and explore the place. But I will better - I will send boarding party on foot through the jungles, they will serve as my cover...
#TEXT   48
Boarding party is heading to San Antonio cape through the jungles and they will reach it in six hours. I will land there in sex hours then. I hope that Diego is actually repairing his ship instead of preparing the guns...
#TEXT   49
That was expected, don Diego de Montoya also known as the mysterious dagger collector, has prepared a trap for me with the help of my ex captive. It seems that the innkeeper of Havana has played his part in this too. I should pay him a visit later... and hang him on his own dirty apron... Spanish are destroyed, but Diego has escaped. Time to sail.
#TEXT   50
I was ambushed by a heavy galleon. I had to fight it while Diego was escaping on his courier lugger in the direction of Main. I don't even see his sails at horizon. I have to chase him down!
#TEXT   51
Diego's lugger has arrived to Catoche cape. His squadron is cruising around. The fight is unavoidable. To arms!
#TEXT   52
Spanish squadron is destroyed. Damn Diego wasn't participating in the fight and landed at the shore. I am going to take my boarding party and chase the bastard to death.
#TEXT   53
We were attacked by Spanish troops at the shore, so we killed them all. Though there was no Diego among corpses. Heading to the jungles.
#TEXT   54
We have found a small Spanish fort in the depth of jungles. Obviously, don Diego de Montoya has lied there. I have to storm it.
#TEXT   55
Fort's garrison is defeated. Diego and the rest of the Spanish are holding the basement. I should clear them out.
#TEXT   56
Diego de Montoya is eliminated. He didn't tell me a thing about Dichoso or anything else. But he had a leather map 'Of two Appearances' - the second component of Guardian of Truth. It means, that Diego was aware about Gino told me...
I wonder why Diego had built this fort. It seems, that it supposed to be a fore post for another Tayasal campaign. That is the only explanation I've got. Fort is looking damaged, someone had already stormed it before I did. That is why it was so easy for me to capture it.
Heading to the shores.
#TEXT   57
Look at this... I've met some English captain called William Paterson who was storming the fort recently and now he has returned with greater forces to finish the Spanish. He was mostly disappointed when he heard that don Diego de Montoya is dead. But there one more thing. His first mate is Archibald Colhaun, the Archibald Colhaun who has started this Tayasal madness! I bet that Paterson attacked Diego's fort not because it was built near Belize.
#TEXT   58
Paterson's squadron is good, really good! Especially his flagship, I've never seen any frigate like this before... And it has a suitable name - 'Fortune'. I'll remember it, I have to talk with Archibald Colhaun anyway. He must know what happened with the compass. But it is not the right time for such conversations. Besides, I don't like such a coincidence - Diego and Archibald in the same place at the same time. I don't believe in coincidences nowadays.
#TEXT   59
Something is very wrong here. Dichoso is alive, 'Santa Quiteria' was seen here with under the new name... What the hell is going on! I am going to Isla Tesoro, I must learn about Dichoso's frigate and about the man himself.
But Archibald Colhaun is my top priority now, only he can tell me about the last component of the Guardian of Truth. And I don't have any ideas how to get him.
#TEXT   60
My talk with Steven not only didn't help me out, but has added new contradictions. 'Santa Quiteria' turned out to be 'San Martin'... or is it a different frigate? Shark was familiar with Dichoso once... And Paterson again, his flagship, I liked so much, is the ship which was bought by Steven from Dichoso. Colhaun, Paterson, don Miguel Dichoso - all of them are bonded somehow.
Visiting father Vincento would be pointless - I didn't learn anything useful. I must deal with our sweet couple - Paterson and Colhaun. Let's start by talking with Fadey, he has given me the dagger which Colhaun got from Tayasal.
#TEXT   60_1
My talk with the local innkeeper not only didn't help me out, but has added new contradictions. 'Santa Quiteria' turned out to be 'San Martin'... or is it a different frigate? And Paterson again, his flagship, I liked so much, is the ship which was bought by Steven Dodson from Dichoso. Colhaun, Paterson, don Miguel Dichoso - all of them are bonded somehow.
Visiting father Vincento would be pointless - I didn't learn anything useful. I must deal with our sweet couple - Paterson and Colhaun. Let's start by talking with Fadey, he has given me the dagger which Colhaun got from Tayasal.
#TEXT   61
Two foul characters tried to rob me right in my cabin. How long will it be going on? Who hired them? All chest are opened and rummaged but nothing was stolen. It is obvious that they were looking for something I always carry with me.
#TEXT   62
I just love to make troubles and powerful enemies! This Paterson seems to be a tough guy. And Calhoun is under his protection…
Heading to Port Royal, Paterson is a captain of Royal Navy and he often visits this place, reporting about his heroic actions to lord Windsdor. I will try to ask people about him.
#TEXT   63
Looks like I am lucky. Paterson's squadron is lying out at Port Royal. I am going to go ashore.
#TEXT   64
I've met Archibald Calhoun face to face right in the town! He also recognized me and, furthermore, he even invited me to share a drink! That was suspicious and was expecting troubles but we had a friendly chat. I managed to leave this hospitable Scot only at late evening.
This meeting was really helpful, now I know where does Colhaun live. I should go there and check his things, perhaps, I will even find the compass among his belongings. I have to wait until Paterson's squadron leaves the town and then I will visit Scot's room at night...
#TEXT   65
Paterson's squadron has left Port Royal. It is time to visit Archibald's place. But how will I get there? The door is closed and, besides, I will have to go through the shop in order to get inside. I can't trust merchant in this business, William Paterson is an important person here, in Port Royal, they will put me in jail if I would try to get inside his first mate's home. I have to find a more secretive way. Perhaps, I should be more attentive and look at the Calhoun's house, there must be a way inside...
#TEXT   66
Climbing was worth it! I didn't find the compass inside but I had an opportunity to read Calhoun's journal which he had been writing during his two year vacation on the uninhabited island. He likes 'rereading it in the warm bad'. 'Arrow of the Way' was left on that island and I've got its approximate coordinates. Let's not waste time!
#TEXT   67
Here it is. Crab island. It was really close to Jamaica. I am going ashore, I have to find Calhoun's hut.
#TEXT   68
I've found the hut. It looks surprisingly lived-in… Now I have to explore the hut, the compass must be somewhere here.
#TEXT   69
Damn it... It's a trap! There is no 'Arrow of the Way' but there are mines and aggressive people... I must get out of here!
#TEXT   70
Paterson and Colhaun have lured me at the uninhabited and unknown island to take the dagger and the map, and to get rid of their competitor. Paterson knows about 'Guardian of Truth' and, I suppose, he is also eager to find Ksocheatem... I barely managed to escape from their trap made by Scot. His musketeers are destroyed. Paterson has run into the jungles. I must get him!
#TEXT   71
Foul Scot run away to the bay where I was met by Archibald Colhaun and his girls. The fight was tough, but all of them are lying down on the sands. I'd better loot Achi's body, he was using an interesting double barreled musket, and, perhaps, I might find something helpful...
#TEXT   72
I've found not only a great musket, but an interesting key on Archibald's corpse. Now I only have to find the lock.
Time to prepare for an upcoming battle - Paterson's squadron is somewhere around.
#TEXT   73
Paterson's squadron is destroyed and the Scot himself is eliminated. One enemy less.. How many of them had I? And how many I will have?
Now, my top priority is to find 'Arrow of the Way'. Paterson mentioned that it is hidden on Jamaica, but not in Port Royal, somewhere where no one will search for it. But I'll find it, I have to find this damn compass!
#TEXT   74
The last component is found. Now I must think about using Guardian of Truth to find Ksocheatem. Because, I suppose, that finding this island would answer a lot of questions and solve a lot of riddles about Dichoso, his lost frigate, Indian treasures and my brother. Diego and Paterson were so eager to get the Guardian! It means that there is something rational in it... If there is an island, then there is a Kukulcan mask which will let me to save our course of time and to stop Kukulcan... damn it, I've never thought that one day I will be reasoning this way! Seems like I share father's Vincento uneasiness and Gino's concerns...
I won't go to father Vincento until I find Ksocheatem. This mess about 'Santa Quiteria', 'San Martin', 'Fortune' and Miguel Dichoso is not understandable until I find the island. Gino will help me to make the Guardian work. Time to sail to Antigua!

#QUEST Ksochitam
The Mystic Ksocheatem Island
#TEXT   1
We have started to solve the riddle of Guardian of Truth. I've given all components to Gino. Let's hope that his exceptional mind will find a way. I have to see my friend in two days, perhaps, Gino will have an answer then.
#TEXT   2
Half of job is done - the dagger and the map are working! Now I have to visit places, marked by the map of Two Appearances. I don't know what are these places yet. I only know that first one is in the center of Dominica, the second is north west from Blueweld. Time to sail.
#TEXT   3
I've found one of the 'Appearances'! This is an Indian statue in the jungles. It made the arrow to stop its chaotic movement and to show a solid direction. I will mark this line on the map, Ksocheatem must be somewhere on this line. I need to find the second 'appearance' if I want to get an accurate location. Heading to Dominica.
#TEXT   4
I've found one of the 'Appearances'! This is an Indian statue in the jungles. It made the arrow to stop its chaotic movement and to show a solid direction. I will mark this line on the map, Ksocheatem must be somewhere on this line. I need to find the second 'appearance' if I want to get an accurate location. Heading to Main.
#TEXT   5
All of the 'Appearances' were found and compass directions were marked. So, Ksocheatem must be somewhere North-East from Main and West-North-West from Dominica. I am going to mark the island's location on the map. Let's not waste time and find mysterious Ksocheatem.
#TEXT   6
We have arrived to Ksocheatem. Yes, this is a creepy place! We must be careful, I don't like the feeling of this place. So, my goal is to find 'Santa Quiteria' and a Kukulcan mask to prevail... the end of the world? Perhaps, my brother is here too.
#TEXT   7
I've found a bay, covered by reefs, there are debris and a few skeletons, the ship's crew, I suppose. Is this 'Santa Quiteria'? I didn't find a name plate. No sign of Indian gold. The loot is pathetic, my brother wouldn't even move his finger for this. What if all gold is lying at the bottom of the sea?
#TEXT   8
I have reached a bay through the sunken grotto. There are a broken ship and numerous chests and barrels lying around the sand. And, of course, more skeletons. I have to swim to the ship's debris and to check its cargo holds, I am feeling that this is what I was looking for.
#TEXT   9
Yes! 'Santa Quiteria'. This bay was the end of Dichoso's frigate. So we have got two similar frigates: 'San Martin' also known as 'Fortune' and 'Santa Quiteria' which is lying here. All of its treasures belong to me now! If I find a Kukulcan mask, then my mission will be fulfilled.
There are too many treasures and I won't be able to move them all alone. I should return to my ship and drop the anchor here.
#TEXT   10
I've found a journal inside 'Santa Quiteria'. I should read it, it must contain a helpful information for me.
#TEXT   11
I've found an ancient Indian mask inside a metal locked box. It is blowing with antiquity and mystery. I've got the mask of Kukulcan! His incarnation will never reach the past and he won't be able to change it. My expedition to Ksocheatem is complete!
#TEXT   11-1
I've found another ancient mask. It was inside a metal locked box lying on the sand. If I hadn't found Guardian's grotto, I would've believed that it is the real mask. I don't want to think what could happen if that was the case...
#TEXT   12
I've found some sort of the ancient Indian temple with a terrible Guardian of Ksocheatem, it's a giant skeleton of the Spanish who was sacrificed in Tayasal long time ago. I had a tough fight with the creature, but I had showed him what a naval captain is capable for, so he decided that I am worthy to negotiate with. I gave him my dagger, which was used to kill him in times when he was still a living man, and he let me to take the mask. He has even fortified my skills somehow.
Guardian has gone, he received his dagger and a long-awaited rest. I have to take the mask and leave this place as soon as possible.
#TEXT   13
I've got a Kukulcan mask! His incarnation will never reach the past and he won't be able to change it. My expedition to Ksocheatem  is complete! But I haven't found 'Santa Quiteria' and its treasures yet, so I should continue exploring the island until I find the ship or to be sure that it is not here.
#TEXT   13-1
I've got the real Kukulcan mask! The one, I found on the sands was just some pretty jade trinket. And I was thinking that it was the real mask! I don't want to think what could happen if...
#TEXT   14
I was met by 'a guest from the past' at Cliffy bay - some man called Alonso de Maldonado. He was eager to get the mask and revenge me for the death of his patron, Diego de Montoya. Negotiations failed and I had to use bullets and steel. I have to sail immediately and deal with Spanish once and for all.
#TEXT   15
Maldonado's squadron was destroyed. How many surprises are waiting for me?
An interesting fact: father Vincento helped Maldonado to track me down. That was expected, the Inquisitor has started playing against me. Well, one powerful enemy more. I am getting used to it.
Now I should go downstairs and tell Gino about my progress.
#TEXT   16
As far as I understand, Maldonado was going to attack Tayasal and use the mask to close the portal forever in order to prevent Kukulcan from getting to the past. Ksocheatem made me treat Kukulcan seriously. As opposed to Gino, I am not sure that claiming the mask will destroy Kanek's plans. I fear that Kukulcan's incarnation is able to get in the past even without a mask. To guarantee our salvation, I have to go to Tayasal... Though Gino is assuring me that there is no need in such radical actions. I am presented a choice: an expedition to Tayasal is extremely dangerous and it might be just a deadly trap, but if Kukulcan would reach the past then our world will vanish. In the other hand, I have got the mask and Kukulcan's incarnation won't be able to pass through the portal, so there is nothing to be worry about. And, by the way, I haven't still found my brother...
Whatever. First, I should deliver Gino back to Antigua.
#TEXT   17
I've found the mysterious island. The weather is pretty ugly and I don't see a bay, suitable for landing. I will have to move near the shore and look for a place where we could drop anchors.

#QUEST Tieyasal
The Ancient City of Maya
#TEXT   1
I had a conversation with father Vincento. He managed to convince me that I must find Tayasal after all. I must seal the portal up with a help of Kukulcan mask, just as Alonso Maldonado told me. Our old elusive friend, Miguel Dichoso, will help me to find the ancient city. Father's Vincento agents have seen him in Sharptown. I am heading to Isla Tesoro.
#TEXT   2
Steven Dodson didn't see Dichoso. I have to ask people in the town.
#TEXT   3
The innkeeper of Isla Tesoro told me an interesting and, in the same time, a bit scary thing. Miguel Dichoso is looking for me himself. Well, I ain't going to run away from him. They say that he was sailing to Blueweld. But I will continue asking people about Dichoso...
#TEXT   4
That crazy old man, Abraham Norman has helped me a lot. It seems that he is not that crazy, because he managed to open my eyes to see obvious things. Why had I been that blind for so long? Miguel Dichoso and Michel de Monper are the same person, it's my brother! Michel the Lucky man, that is how they called him in the army for his fortune... I don't get it why Abraham believes that Michel is a half-blood, he is my brother. That is the worst kind of brothers, I suppose...
Michel has gone to Blueweld and he left his dogs at Isla Tesoro to keep me here. Well, I will deal with them. Time for fight.
#TEXT   5
I was attacked by pirate squadron at Isla Tesoro, that was suspicious, it seems that they had been waiting for me.
#TEXT   6
Norman was right, my brother's mercs had been waiting for me near the shores of Isla Tesoro. I engaged the fight and killed them all to keep my rear safe.
#TEXT   7
I've met a messenger from Miguel Dichoso in Blueweld. The Spanish is looking for me too. His intentions are clear - he wants to propose a joint expedition to Tayasal. That is exactly what I want. The meeting is arranged inside a big crypt of Saint Christopher's cemetery. Despite of Dichoso's assurances, I must be careful and keep my eyes open. I will secure myself by landing at Sandy Bay with a small group of my men.
#TEXT   8
I've met a messenger from Miguel Dichoso in Blueweld...  from my dear brother, I mean. No doubt, he doesn't realize that I know his true identity and his true intentions. I will attend the meeting, but I perfectly understand that it is a trap. The meeting is arranged inside a big crypt of Saint Christopher's cemetery. I will prepare well and secure myself by landing at Sandy Bay with an enhanced boarding party.
#TEXT   9
I am standing near Saint Christopher's cemetery. I will enter the crypt alone, but my officers will be ready to react in any sign of danger.
#TEXT   10
Damn Dichoso has fooled me and prepared an ambush by sending another pawn instead of coming himself. His messenger said something about 'brothers in blood'... I don't get it. I should check the corpse, I might find something useful there.
#TEXT   11
My brother has organized me am ambush, just as I expected. It is good that I was ready for it. But, first, I should check the corpse, I might find something useful there.
#TEXT   12
I was so blind!  And why had I been that blind for so long? Miguel Dichoso and Michel de Monper are the same person, it's my brother! Michel the Lucky man, that is how they called him in the army for his fortune. That is the worst kind of brothers, I suppose...
According to the letter, Michel decided to get rid of me in the most radical way. It seems, that I am a big pain in his butt. Well, I suppose, that he won't help me to find Tayasal, I'll have to do that myself. I should leave this place quickly.
#TEXT   13
According to the letter, Michel decided to get rid of me in the most radical way. It seems, that I am a big pain in his butt. Well, I suppose, that he won't help me to find Tayasal, I'll have to do that myself. I should leave this place quickly.
#TEXT   14
An ambush prepared by my brother is destroyed. There is no rest for him now, not at Caribbean, not in Europe, I will find him by all means necessary. But now I have to find the way to Tayasal. I need to return back on my ship and think about it in my cabin.
#TEXT   15
Plan of my further actions is ready. I may try to solve the riddle of Kukulcan statues or I may try to find a path to the city.
#TEXT   16
I have decided. Now it is time to search for the path to the city of Tayasal.
#TEXT   17
And what would I do without my shaman friend? Snake Eye not only has solved the riddle of statues, but made a calendar from the shards, I was lucky enough to keep. I hope that we were right... I am going to see the statue and try to insert the calendar in a deepening Snake Eye was talking about.
#TEXT   18
Once again, Snake Eye has proven his wisdom. Calendar fits excellent and the statue seems to be alive now. I am almost confident that statues will now work properly and teleport people to Tayasal as they were meant to do. That is great, I will evade dangerous jungles of Yucatan. I will send my ship to wait for me at Gulf of Death.
Shaman gave me four Comanche potions, I am already familiar with it. It is almost impossible to travel through Kukulcan statues without them. It means that I can take three companions with me. But who would agree on this? Only the closest and the most loyal people...
#TEXT   19
Mary, my faithful and beloved girl, agreed to follow me and share risks. Well, her blade has been saving my life for a long time. I must watch over her, I won't forgive myself for loosing her.
#TEXT   20
Helen, my faithful and beloved girl, agreed to follow me and share risks. Well, she feels confident with her blade. I must watch over her, I won't forgive myself for loosing her.
#TEXT   21
My faithful friend and companion, Indian Muscog Tichingitu is ready to follow me.
#TEXT   22
My faithful officer, the old cannoneer, Charlie Knippel didn't leave me in the darkest hour.
#TEXT   23
My faithful officer, a great fencer, Hercule Tonzag didn't leave me in the darkest hour.
#TEXT   24
My faithful officer, the Chinese Longway didn't leave me in the darkest hour.
#TEXT   25
So, I have reached Tayasal. After a tough fight with Indians at the outskirts of the city, I was met but Urakan himself, the war chief of Itza people. He is a son of Kanek, who has summoned Kukulcan, or, to put it right, its incarnation. He is waiting for me. I should go to the big temple of Tayasal.
#TEXT   26
My brother, my dear brother Michel de Monper also known as Miguel Dichoso is Kukulcan... My mind is barely holding on. I've been helping Kukulcan to destroy our reality. Impossible! But I was able to fix the situation and survived the fight with my Kukulcan brother and his minions. Urakan has joined my side, he believes that I am the incarnation of Cavil, another their god. Poor Indians...
Now I have to destroy the time portal to prevail anyone from reaching the past. Urakan doesn't know how to seal it, but he read me some of theirs writings. "When the sun rises against the rain, and the fire between them, is held in triangle, Tohil shall hit the ground and burn the mask on the altar and close the gates forever" I must think about it!
Besides, Urakan said that the portal is sealed, Kanek was opening it himself, saying: " Sun rises and passes, water rises and drowns, fire lights and dies out, war and peace are replacing each other, only sky is essential". Another Indian riddle.
Let's start with looting Kanek's body.
#TEXT   27
I've found a strange key on Kanek's corpse. I must find out its usage, I am sure, that he was carrying it for a reason!
#TEXT   28
It seems that I've solved the riddle of Maya! Now I have to put the mask on the altar of time. If I did everything right, something interesting is going to happen...
#TEXT   29
The Kukulcan mask is destroyed and so as all time portals. I am victorious! My mission is completely fulfilled and ended with triumph. Now I may return peacefully to the shore. Itza won't cause any troubles for me, I am the incarnation of Cavil, for them...
#TEXT   30
Turns out that the temple of Kukulcan opens with planting an ancient tables of Itzamna inside the special deepening behind the temple. That explains Kanek's words about the sky which is stronger than time... I am going to see this portal of time.
#TEXT   31
Urakan claims that tables of Mayan gods may serve as keys for mechanisms, doors and magic rituals.
#TEXT   32
Urakan doesn't know how to open a door which leads to the Itza treasury. Only his father was allowed to open it. Urakan told me his father's saying: 'Every wealth is two sided. Only those who knows both sides will be allowed to the treasures of Tayasal'.

#QUEST Caleuche
Caleuche
#TEXT   1
Today I have obtained a strange Indian amulet. I have no idea what it's used for, but the experience I gained during my stay in the Caribbean tells me that this is no mere trinket. The amulet is ancient and it almost emanates some unknown power. I'd better ask people, who know about such things.
#TEXT   2
The lighthouse keeper told me an interesting story about that amulet I found. Everything looks even more interesting now. If I want to know more, I have to go to Dominica to the Caribbean village and find a certain shaman there. Moreover, I should bring a musket to present it to him, or our conversation might not happen at all. A military musket of naval carabin should do.
#TEXT   3
I have talked to Tuttuathapak, shaman of the Caribs. It turns out that I cannot make any use of this particular amulet, but if I manage to find two more similar amulets, which at  some point had been taken from Tuttuathapak's homeland by a slaver, the shaman will bestow some 'power' upon me. Tuttuathapak surely doesn't look like a joker, so it makes sense to start searching for them. I should return to my old acquaintance, the lighthouse keeper, and ask him more questions.
#TEXT   4
As soon as we had set sail, a storm suddenly occured, and then something terrible happened: we were attacked by the ghost ship, the 'Flying Dutchman'! They boarded us very skillfully, and the reason for the attack was that Indian amulet. The captain of the ghost ship took it from me, almost killing me in the process... It was a miracle that I have survived.
#TEXT   5
My ship was destroyed by the 'Flying Dutchman', but part of my crew, the officers and myself managed to survive. I am going to visit Tuttuathapak - he would surely know, why the dead captain might need that amulet.
#TEXT   6
After talking to the shaman I learned many interesting things. Caleuche, the ghost ship, is scouring the Caribbean sea in search for artifacts of the ancient Chavins, which had been taken from the mainland to the Caribbean. Its crew is cursed by the Indian God of Death, Yum Cimil, and in order to lift his curse and beat Caleuche in battle, I will need to obtain the jade skull of Yum Cimil, which had been stolen by the captain of the ghost ship from the Indian sanctuary quite some time ago. Quite a story!
Alright, now I will search for two other amulets. If I manage to find them, I'll have to be very careful and avoid encountering Caleuche again by all possible means. I have no chance to best it in naval combat or by boarding, so my only hope is to outrun it. Considering that Caleuche is very fast, I will need an even faster ship for that.
#TEXT   7
I have talked to the keeper of the lighthouse. Now I must find a Fergus Hoper, a hunter from Beliz, and mysterious Jack-Jackson from Barbados, who sails a xebec named after 'bird woman, born from the sea gods'.
#TEXT   8
Fergus Hooper shall return from the jungle no sooner than in three days time. It is better to look for him in the tavern, where he usually spends his time from six to ten in the evening.
#TEXT   9
Now that's a stroke of bad luck... The amulet I needed so much was stolen from Fergus' house. This was the work of some bandits, which had recently emerged in the vicinity of Beliz. I should pay the commandant a visit and ask him about it - perhaps he knows something.
#TEXT   10
The conversation with the commandant was all but fruitless. I'll have to act on my own. Both Fergus and the commandant claimed that the bandits had accomplices in town. I'll need to work in that direction.
#TEXT   11
In one of the houses I encountered a very unpleasant type. I offered him to walk with me to the commandant's office, but he refused and drew his sword. I had to calm him down. Now to search the body - it looks like this bandits belongs to the gang I am looking for.
#TEXT   12
I have found a letter to the ringleader containing an instruction and some clue. Now I'll have to go to the bandits in the jungle, pretending to be their messenger.
#TEXT   13
My affair with the bandits ended up successfully - I learned where their 'headquarters' were located. This is a cavern in the jungle, the left one, if going out of the city. Surely the scoundrels are hiding their stolen loot inside. I will need to come there after midnight and search it thoroughly.
#TEXT   14
I managed to find the bandit's cache under the planks in one of the galleries, and there the amulet which I needed. Unfortunately, it didn't go without hardships: a couple of bandits has caught me red-handed, and I had to talk with them using the language of knife and pistol.
Now I am going to Dominica again to see Tuttuathapak: sailing the seas with this amulet in my pocket is very dangerous.
#TEXT   15
I told the commandant about the time and place where the meeting of the gang shall take place. He promised to send soldiers there. I'll drop in after three days - to find out about the results of the ambush and to receive my reward, if I am eligible for any.
#TEXT   16
That stupid martinet confused 'left' with 'right'. Perhaps his parents hadn't taught him to tell left from right. In any case they let the gang to slip away - and my reward is gone.
#TEXT   17
The gang, which terrorized Beliz, was eliminated, and I received a nice reward.
#TEXT   18
The captain of the xebec with the 'birdish' name now works for the Dutch. I am heading to Willemstad.
#TEXT   19
Reginald Jackson makes regular trips between Port Royal and Philipsburg. He doesn't stay in the colonies for long, so I'll have to look for his xebec in the sea on that route and near his destination points.
#TEXT   20
The amulet which I need lies in Jackson's chest on Barbados. I am heading there.
#TEXT   21
The amulet has been found. Now I need to take it to Tuttuathapak.
#TEXT   22
The second amulet of the Chavins has been handed to Tuttuathapak. One more is still to be found.
#TEXT   23
The third amulet of the Chavins has been handed to Tuttuathapak. Now I need to focus on my search for the jade skull.
#TEXT   24
IN Willemstad I was approached by a monk who had a strange request for me: @<sText> But if I want to find the artifact of Yum Cimil, I must overcome my fear.
#TEXT   25
My premonition didn't deceive me! In the darkest hour of the night, out of nowhere a terrible skeleton with a great axe emerged engulfed in hellish flame, and attacked me! I destroyed the monster. It seems that it was none other than the former landlady of the house, judging by the things I found on the skeleton. Looks like Merriman is a fearsome warlock indeed. I must tell about it to the father superior of the church in Willemstad, just like the monk requested.
#TEXT   26
Apparently, the traces of Merriman's activity emerged on Cuba. I am heading to the priest of Havana, as father superior of the church in Willemstad had recommended.
#TEXT   27
It's time to find out whether the hunters were telling the truth. I am heading to the cave in the jungle. I must be careful...
#TEXT   28
The cave was crawling with the living dead. Once they all were destroyed, a huge monster appeared out of the water - an Indian mummy with jaguar fangs and a huge mace. Now I am certain these were Merriman's tricks. The jade skull of the Chavins summoned jaguar warriors, about which Tuttuathapak was telling me. Now I am heading to the priest of Havana with my report.
#TEXT   29
The story with the jade skull is getting worse and worse. Apparently, Merriman uses the skull to turn people into zombies. I must find the Portuguese, before he causes even more trouble. Joachim's lair should be located somewhere on Cuba. But where exactly?
#TEXT   30
The lair of Joachim Merriman has been found - he is hiding in a cave, the entrance to which is located in the cemetery crypt behind a locked door. I have the key to it, so I can go there right away. Still, I must keep in mind that Merriman is very dangerous and he's unlikely to welcome me warmly, so I better prepare for my visit to him. But I shall not delay, either - in two days at most the inquisitor in Santiago will receive the dispatch of father superior in Havana, and then everything there will be crawling with Spanish soldiers.
#TEXT   31
I delayed the raid of Merriman's raid too much, and the inquisition got ahead of me. I don't even know, whether he was caught or sneaked away. In any case, the jade skull of Yum Cimil has been lost for good. There's no point in returning to Tuttuathapak anymore.
#TEXT   32
Necromancer Merriman was a tough nut, and his summoned Chavinavi monsters were really terrifying, but I managed to come out victorious of this hard fight. Now to search the body of the warlock and take the jade skull.
#TEXT   33
I now have the jade skull of Yum Cimil. Now to Dominica, to see Tuttuathapak.
#TEXT   34
The next step is taking the jade skull to the temple of Chavins, which is located on some uninhabited island in the Archipelago. The only thing I know about it is that it is located to the North of Dominica near the ocean. @<sText> And I must hurry - I only have one month to return the skull to the temple. After a month has passed, amulets of Tuttuathapakа will lose their power, and I won't be able to pass the temple guardians - the frightful Chavinavi.
#TEXT   35
I have talked to Nathaniel Hawk! Now I know the coordinates of Khael Roa: 19 degrees 32 minutes North, 62 degrees 25 minutes West. Besides, Nathan told me about the dangers waiting for me in the temple.
#TEXT   36
I have arrived to Khael Roa. This is a small rocky gloomy island. Now I am heading into the jungle to search for the old island.
#TEXT   37
The jade skull lies now on the pedestal before the bird statue, of which Tuttuathapak was telling me. The curse now must be lifted from Caleuche. Now I am returning to my ship and begin my hunt.
#TEXT   38
In the temple sanctuary I have met the chieftain of the Chavinavi and talked to him. Not only I have put the jade skull on the pedestal at the statue of condor, but I also received a decent gift from the terrible temple guardian.
The curse now must be lifted from Caleuche. Now I am returning to my ship and begin my hunt.
#TEXT   39
The ghost ship was found and captured, and its fearful crew led by the skeleton captain was destroyed for good. No longer shall Caleuche frighten the sailors. All three amulets of the Chavins are now mine. I am returning to Tuttuathapak for the reward he promised.
#TEXT   40
I managed to fail the entire mission at the very end: the amulet, which Tuttuathapak needed so badly, is now lost forever. I guess I better not go to visit him at all - he might curse me with insanity, like that ill-fated captain...
#TEXT   41
The shaman rewarded me with three powerful potions, which shall permanently increase my reaction, endurance and some other characteristic of my choice. But in order for him to make me these potions I shall bring the shaman five stems of a herb called Manga Rosa.
#TEXT   42
Well, that's the end of this long story. I received from the shaman three great potions, which surely will help me in my journeys, and Tuttuathapak has his amulets, which will help him to comprehend the wisdom of his ancestors, the ancient Chavins.
#TEXT   43
I have spent to much time in search for the island, and the amulets of Tuttuathapak have lost their power. I failed to return the jade skull back to the temple, and Tuttuathapak refused to deal with me any further. Well, nothing to do here, it was all my fault.
#TEXT   44
I have found quite a curious hall in the depths of the temple. There are stone floor plates and pillars. The exit which apparently leads to the sanctuary is blocked by a massive stone door. I should find a way to open it. Investigating this hall would be a good start.

#QUEST Patria
Hero of the nation.
#TEXT   1
So, Poincy wants to teach the Spaniards a good word for the attack on St. Pierre. And the colony of San Jose on Trinidad will answer for the short-sightedness of Don Mendosa. To bombard the fort, I must have the 66-gun ship 'Eclatant' in the squadron. I will be able to find her at the road of Capsterville.
#TEXT   2
'Eclatant' is now a part of my squardron, I need to get to Trinidad in a month time.
#TEXT   2_1
'Eclatant' was sunk during the battle. An unfortunate event...
#TEXT   3
It took me too long to get to Trinidad and the captain of 'Eclatant' lost his patience. He left the squardron. Perhaps I shouldn't disturb Poincy and find myself some better business. I'll never become an officer.
#TEXT   4
My squadron is on the outskirts of Trinidad. Let the attack on the fort commence!
#TEXT   5
The San Jose fort was destroyed. I'm setting off to the lighthouse on Trinidad - the Spaniards must have sent the parliamentarians there.
#TEXT   6
The ranson from governor is received. It's time to head back, however I should avoid getting myself into other affairs on the way. If I do so, then I will get to Saint Christopher in about tweleve days or so.
#TEXT   7
It took me to long to return to Saint Christopher. Perhaps I shouldn't disturb Poincy and find myself some better business. I'll never become an officer.
#TEXT   8
Despite my success, Poincy was horrified by the loss of 'Eclatant'. I didn't know that it was so important... But this most definitely is the end of my career as a naval officer...
#TEXT   9
Poincy was pleased with me and paid a prize of 50,000 pesos. Now I need to take an inspector from Paris, Baron Noel Forget, in the Tortuga colony and Port-au-Prince to carry out an audit. Let's head off! I have two month time at my disposal to get there and back.
#TEXT   10
I partaking in unrelated affairs and the inspector was fed up with it - he left my ship. Well, well, I will not go to Poincy, I'm tired of performing all kinds of silly orders, I will live freely as before.
#TEXT   11
Inspector Forget has landed on Tortuga. Three days later I need to come back for him.
#TEXT   12
It's time to take Baron Forget and get going.
#TEXT   13
Inspector Forget has landed on Port-au-Prince. In a week, I will need to go back and pick up the baron.
#TEXT   14
Colonies Tortuga and Port-au-Prince, visited, it's time to go back to Saint Christopher.
#TEXT   15
Yet another task: I have to go to Hispaniola, to Port-au-Prince together with the captain of 'Eclatant' and find out if our colony is really threatened by the danger of the Spaniards. I have a month in my disposal.
#TEXT   16
It took me too long to get to Trinidad and the captain of 'Eclatant' lost his patience. He left the squardron. Perhaps I shouldn't disturb Poincy and find myself some better business. I'll never become an officer.
#TEXT   17
To the west of Hispaniola, dangerously close to Port-au-Prince we really found a spanish war squadron. To arms!
#TEXT   18
The spanish squadron has been destroyed, the governor and the inhabitants of Port-au-Prince can sleep safely. I'm heading back to Poincy.
#TEXT   19
Despite my success, Poincy was horrified by the loss of 'Eclatant'. I didn't know that it was so important... But this most definitely is the end of my career as a naval officer...
#TEXT   20
I have a diplomatic affair, to bring to Willemstad on Curacao a letter for Peter Stuyvesant the leader of Dutch Trade Company himself, and to escort a shipment of goods. I'm curious as to what business does Poincy have with Stuyvesant?.. This has to be done in a matter of three weeks, while Peter hasn't departed from Curacao yet.
#TEXT   21
It took me too long to get to Curacao, and Stuyvesant already left. The captain of the cargo ship lost his patience and left the squadron. Perhaps I shouldn't disturb Poincy and find myself some better business. I'll never become an officer.
#TEXT   22
Losing  a trade vessel is a shameful display! I'll never become an officer.
#TEXT   23
My task on Cuaracao is done. A written response from Stuyvesant for Poincy has been obtained, It's time to head back. I shouldn't linger though as I'm expected to meet with Chevalier no later than in a month time.
#TEXT   24
I was busy with other matters and completely forgot about Stuyvesant's letter. Well, well, I will not go to Poincy, I'm tired of performing all kinds of silly orders, I will live freely as before.
#TEXT   24_1
I'm fed up with risking my life under cannonfire while solving commercial problems of Poincy. I did not imagine a service in the Navy to be like this. I decided that I had enough, I'd rather live freely, as I did before.
#TEXT   25
I got a promotion: Poincy granted me the rank of a Commodore! This is quite fortunate, my brother would be amazed with this, I'm sure... And the Governor of Port-au-Prince sent me a generous gift: 500 bags of coffee, 500 cocoa boxes and 50 logs of baket. I'll be able to pick up all this at the Capsterville store whenever I want. And my next assignment is to await the arrival of the baron from the southern colonies and take him to Sint Maarten.
#TEXT   26
Baron Noel Forget is on board, now I have to depart for Sint Maarten. I have 7 days at my disposal.
#TEXT   27
Cursed be this day! I hardly entered the harbor of Philipsburg and prepared to anchor, when my ship was shot at from the fort! And I am attacked by Dutch ships! Hold on, you rascals! We must leave the area of reach of the fort and deal with the enemy squadron.
#TEXT   28
The Dutch ships have been destroyed. I need to get out of here as fast as I can.
#TEXT   29
Chevalier himself was shocked by the incident - he did not give any intelligible explanation of the sudden aggression of the Dutch, although it seems to me that he knows much more than he says ... I shall once again go to Curacao, to Stuyvesant.
#TEXT   30
It seems that Poincy and Stuyvesant had a quarrel over something they could share fairly. Okay. I will report everything to the Chevalier upon arrival on Saint Christopher.
#TEXT   31
It seems that Poincy and Stuyvesant had a quarrel over something they could share fairly. But it had the biggest negative impact on me. Stuyvesant decided to arrest me, but he failed at it. He did not know who he was dealing with... Okay. I will report everything to the Chevalier upon arrival on Saint Christopher.
#TEXT   32
On the way back, the Dutch military squadron got behind me and attacked me. Well this is too much! The bastards really done it now.
#TEXT   33
So that's what it is! Poincy conducted secret commercial business with Stuyvesant, selling through the Company the salt from the mine located on Sint Maarten! It is quite in the spirit of the Chevalier - use others in various scams ... Now I understand why Poincy delayed the inspection of Sint Maarten by Baron Forget - it was necessary to coordinate with Stuyvesant how to 'cover' the salt business from the eyes of the inspector. Yes, only the director of the Company turned out to be that same cheat - he decided to take advantage of the opportunity and get rid of the partner. Okay ... Chevalier clearly decided to teach Stuyvesant a lesson - the old fox does not forgive such trickery. Tomorrow I should come to Poincy for a new assignment.
#TEXT   34
Well, that was expected: I must go to the shores of Sint Maarten and organize a hunt for Dutch merchant ships bound for Philipsburg. And I shouldn't waste my time: I need to attack only the east indiamans - the backbone of the Company's merchant fleet. In total, I need to seize and bring to the port of Capsterville five such ships.
#TEXT   35
Now I only have to capture the @<sQty> of the Dutch East Indies Trading Company.
#TEXT   36
The task was fulfilled successfully. Now I can rest for a bit before I recieve any new orders from Poincy.
#TEXT   37
Why am I not surprised? Saint Christopher is besieged by a powerful Spanish squadron. I have no doubt that this is Stuyvesant's answer to our with Poincy's doings off the coast of Sint Maarten. I urgently need to get to the Chevalier.
#TEXT   38
So, I must go for help to the British at Antigua, to Colonel Doily. I need not only to slip past the enemies myself, but also to bring behind me a courier lugger that will go south to Guadalupe with an order to the captain of the 'Eclatant'.
#TEXT   39
The courier lugger to my great regret was sunk by enemy ships. It is very unfortunate that there will be no one to deliver the request for help to the besieged captain of the 'Eclatant'...
#TEXT   40
The courier lugger has successfully departed to the sovereign sea through the siege and now will sail for Guadeloupe. And I must hurry to St. John.
#TEXT   41
It took me too long to get to Antigua - fishermen from the oncoming ship told me that it is rumored that Capsterville fell to the Spaniards and the Dutch. And all this because my hesitation. France lost an entire colony. Such a shame...
#TEXT   42
Having read Poincy's message, Doily immediately agreed to help the besieged Capsterville. I wonder what Chevalier promised him? We must prepare for a difficult battle. I'm glad that Doily's squadron is strong enough, especially its flagship: a 100-gun battleship of the 1st rank. I think that we will win.
#TEXT   43
It took me too long to ge to Capsterville and the squadron of Colonel Doily went to battle without me. Okay, with such power as Doyle's flagship, they will manage themselves, and I will live in peace, as I did before - free of any assignments and orders.
#TEXT   44
The battle was difficult, but we reigned victorious. The Spanish-Dutch squardron has been destroyed.
#TEXT   45
Poincy gave me a week off. I'm sure that in this time he will be discussing what he promised Doily in the letter...
#TEXT   46
My week off is over, it's time to meet with Poincy.
#TEXT   47
I decided that I no longer wanted to participate in Poincy's intrigues, covering his back from the Dutch and the Spaniards. Let Doily do it now, and I will live free, as I did before.
#TEXT   48
I have a serious matter to do: no later than two months, I need to drive the Dutch out of Sint Maarten, including the salt mine, and return the island to the French. The governors of Guadeloupe and Martinique should help me: to provide me with a squadron for a fully manned military frigate. @<sText>
#TEXT   49
I decided that I no longer wanted to participate in Poincy's intrigues, covering his back from the Dutch and the Spaniards. Let Doily do it now, and I will live free, as I did before.
#TEXT   50
Resistance of the enemy is broken, Philipsburg is ours. Now I must find the salt mine and cleanse it from the Dutch.
#TEXT   50_1
Martin Thomas did not really resist at all, and he laid out the scheme of the way to the mine. I need to return to the ship, land in the Grand Case Bay in the north of the island together with the assault group and look for a passage along the coastline near the stones at the edge of the bay.
#TEXT   51
Huh! It wasn't the Dutch at the mine, but the Spaniards! They fought back fiercely, but they could not resist my forces. The manager of the mine, hiding in one of the houses, was taken captive. Sint Maarten is completely liberated. It's time to return to St. Christopher - Poincy will be very happy. And the Dutch led by Martin Thomas, let them roll on Curacao on any galoshes that we find in the docks or at the shipyards - I keep my word.
#TEXT   52
For the successful military operation and taking into account past merits, I was awarded the rank of Vice Admiral! Well, almost - this has yet to be confirmed back in Paris, but Chevalier assures that this issue has already been resolved. I can not believe it! If someone told me a couple of years ago that I would become vice admiral of the French fleet, I would have laughed in his face...
And yet another task - to once again step on the tail of Stuyvesant - capture a caravan with slaves from Africa that is headed for Willemstad. Ten days later, it will pass by the coast of Trinidad towards Curacao. The captured slaves should be brought to Jamaica and handed to Colonel Doily. And I suspect why: Doily, apparently, is Poincy's new partner in the salt mine business...
#TEXT   53
I made a fool out of myself because of this Dutch caravan. And would I dare to look Poincy in the eyes now? I'll leave everything to the sharks and I live as before, I'm no Vice Admiral. It's laughable to even think about.
#TEXT   54
In the heat of battle, I drowned one ship with slaves. Very unfortunate...
#TEXT   55
I'm such a dullard. How did I manage to sink both ships with the slaves. And now what? Colonel Doily is waiting for the slaves... And I have only a month's time...
#TEXT   56
The Dutch slave caravan was intercepted. I'm going to Colonel Doily in Jamaica. And I have to hurry: there is less than a month's time, otherwise they may grow weary of waiting.
#TEXT   57
The slaves were transferred to Colonel Doily. There is a serious military operation against the Dutch. I'm leaving for Poincy's.
#TEXT   58
So, Poincy and Doily decided to finish off their prey until he recover. Sounds reasonable. I have to come to Jamaica and, together with the colonel, go on a vindictive expedition to Curacao. Baron Forget brought good news from Sint Maarten: a part of the trophies captured from the Dutch were transferred to me. I can pick them up at any time in the Capsterville warehouse.
#TEXT   59
I decided to quit the game - I'm tired of being a pawn of Poincy and Doily. They will be swimming in gold, and I'll be doing the dirty work? It's enough for me, they should look for a new puppet, ready to fight for ranks and glory.
#TEXT   60
The vindictary squadron has been formed, together with Colonel Doily, we shall march on Curacao.
#TEXT   61
The fort has been destroyed. Doily will march to the city walls with the artillery rom the lagoon of Blanca, and I will land an assault party on Cape Santa Maria and move to Willemstad from there.
#TEXT   62
The resistance of the Dutch at the city gate of Willemstad has been suppressed. It seems that the enemy realized they do not have the slightest chance against our artillery. It's time to give a signal for negotiations.
#TEXT   63
Preliminary negotiations were held. Now we must wait for the arrival of Peter Stuyvesant himself to sign an agreement between the three parties - Britain, France and Holland.
#TEXT   64
The Stuyvesant accepted all the conditions and signed the contract. Excellent! Our mission with Doily was a complete success. Now we shall return to the ships, and I sail for St. Christopher with a report to Poincy.
#TEXT   65
My promotion to the rank of Vice Admiral was signed in Paris. Well, I can only congratulate myself! How many people were able to climb the ladder from a landlubber to the Vice Admiral of the navy? Oh, if only my father had known about it!..
I have a month off. I will report to the Chevalier de Poincy when it ends.
#TEXT   66
My vacation time has run out, I should to report to Poincy.
#TEXT   67
So, Baron Forget's business with his French Trading Company is now interfering with Poincy's affairs. And I need to somehow convince the Baron not to create this organization here. It seems that the Chevalier is very much afraid of the Baron, who is close to the Minister of Finance and the King himself ... A crazy idea: what if it is a good opportunity to get even with the Chevalier for all his sins? For a million, which I collected with such difficulty? For my troubles with pirates? For Tortuga? For all his cunning, cowardness and greed? Or perhaps I should forget about all of this: now Poincy really treats me like a friend, we have developed a really strong bond... I'll think about it. In the meantime - in Port-au-Prince, I'll talk with Noel Forget.
#TEXT   68_1
I decided to side with Poincy until the end. I will be better than him, and I will not commit betrayal. And I know how to convince the baron: with the help of my friend, the pirate baron and the head of the Coastal Brotherhood, Stephen Dodson, I will fake a kidnapping. Let the baron feel what pirates are truly capable of on his own hide, and then, perhaps, show some respect for them. Well, we'll make sure that he understands what Poincy wanted him to.
#TEXT   68_2
I decided to side with Poincy until the end. I will be better than him, and I will not commit betrayal. And I know how to convince the baron: with the help of my friend, the pirate baron and the head of the Coastal Brotherhood, I will fake a kidnapping. Let the baron feel what pirates are truly capable of on his own hide, and then, perhaps, show some respect for them. Well, we'll make sure that he understands what Poincy wanted him to.
#TEXT   68_3
I decided to side with Poincy until the end. I will be better than him, and I will not commit betrayal. And I know how to convince the baron: with the help of my friend, the pirate baron and the Guardian of the Codex, Marcus Tyrax, I will fake a kidnapping. Let the baron feel what pirates are truly capable of on his own hide, and then, perhaps, show some respect for them. Well, we'll make sure that he understands what Poincy wanted him to.
#TEXT   69
Urgh, I wasted too much time, now it is impossible to intecept him. What a failure.
#TEXT   70
Steven agreed to help me. I just have to wait a bit, until I the rumors about the abduction of the Baron start to spead. When that happens, I will head off for Isla Tesoro.
#TEXT   71
Tyrax agreed to help me. I just have to wait a bit, until I the rumors about the abduction of the Baron start to spead. When that happens, I will head off for Isla Tesoro.
#TEXT   72_1
So, my plan was successful. The head of the Brotherhood of the Coast attacked the brig and kidnapped the baron, there is talk of this in all the taverns and on every ship. It's time to depart for Isla Tesoro.
#TEXT   72_2
So, my plan was successful. Tyrax attacked the brig and kidnapped the baron, there is talk of this in all the taverns and on every ship. It's time to depart for La Vega.
#TEXT   73
The last chord of this comedy is to ransom the baron. We'll meet a week later on Turks in the Northern Bay. Don't forget to take 350 000 Peso with you - everything should look normal.
#TEXT   74
The baron has been 'ransomed' and is heading for my cabin. I have to say this though, the baron does not look like he used to...
#TEXT   75
The baron was killed because of my negligence. What a shame... Well then, I guess I'll just go and report this to Poincy.
#TEXT   75_1
The baron died of a fever. What a shame... Well then, I guess I'll just go and report this to Poincy.
#TEXT   76
The baron has been brought to Capsterville safely. My scheme has succeeded: Monsieur Forget no longer wants to create any trade Companies in the Archipelago. Let him tell his stories to the chevalier for a day or so, I'll come to Poincy tomorrow.
#TEXT   77
Vice-admiral... And now the Governor of Sint-Maarten! By God, what a miracle! But I'm even more glad about the letter from my dear father. That is the best reward I have ever received.
#TEXT   78
Poincy looked disappointed, but the consequences don't scare him that much. Well, say what you will, but he's one tough soldier. And I myself should really consider going back to Paris.
#TEXT   79
I've decided to make even with Poincy. The capture of the Spanish governor on Sint-Maarten helped us a great deal. The baron has questioned him. Now, we need to dig up some evidence of the English meddling in our mine. I'll go to the Grand Case Cove, on Sint-Maarten, and from there the baron and I can get to the mine. We will go together at night, so as to not attract any attention.
#TEXT   80
We were attacked by an English patrol on the beach near the mine. We had to defend ourselves.
#TEXT   81
The baron wishes to meet Stuyvesant... I'm not so fond of this idea, but I have no choice - I must go to Curacao. I'll land at the bay near the Hato Caves, on the side of the island opposite of Willemstad, and I'll send the Spanish captive to the city with the letter.
#TEXT   82
The Spaniard has been sent to Stuyvesant with the letter. Now we wait...
#TEXT   83
Stuyvesant and Poincy are like twins: one wants a million, and so does the other... But what can I do: I need to bring money to the wretched Dutchman, or I'll have problems I won't be able to deal with anytime soon.
#TEXT   84
I have Stuyvesant's ledger. Now, I should go to the baron's cabin and give him the book. I hope that will be enough. The cooperation with Monsieur Forget turned out to be quite expensive.
#TEXT   85
So, it is done. Now, I only have to take the baron to Saint-Christopher. 
#TEXT   86
The baron has been brought to Capsterville successfully. Let him sing his little tune for the chevalier now, and I'll come to Poincy tomorrow. And then - I wait for the resolution for half a year. It would have been quite interesting to see the chevalier's face when they tell him: 'Chevalier Philippe de Poincy, in the name of the King, you are under arrest!'
#TEXT   87
Vice-admiral... And now the Governor of Sint-Maarten! By God, what a miracle! I even feel a little remorse for the chevalier... But did he show remorse for using me to his advantage? No. So, he will get what was coming for him.
But I'm even more glad about the letter from my dear father. That is the best reward I have ever received.
#TEXT   88
I didn't manage to pay Stuyvesant his million in time. Just like I expected, I'm in big trouble now. 
#TEXT   89
Baron Noel Forget has returned to the Archipelago. I should go to Capsterville's residence. It seems, something has already happened...
#TEXT   90
That's it. The retribution has been dealt. Chevalier Poincy has been arrested and will be escorted to court in Paris. Baron Forget will deal with the company, while I... I'm a governor-general now. And it seems, I have a long time yet to serve in the French colonies. My dream of coming back to Paris soon did not come into fruition. Or perhaps, I didn't want it that much in the first place?

#QUEST GoldenGirl
More Than Gold
#TEXT   1
A second I stepped on the shores of St. Pierre, I immediately got an urgent invitation from a governor. Here we go again...
#TEXT   2
I was sure that, yet again, more troubles are upon us. Say, a pirate raid, a war and such. But hey, his Excellency is only eager to gain favor from a well connected luxury courtesan. He needs me as trophy for a lovely dame. Either it's passion or politics, but having a little party would be something for a change. In the end, I've not partaken in such events since Paris. God, it's been a while. 
Tomorrow, I have to come to the brothel from 9 to 12 pm. I better not to late.
#TEXT   3
I didn't stay true to my promise and skipped madam Botot's reception. I hope the governor will see to his favor indulged anyway.
#TEXT   4
No rest for the wicked, as they say in the Book. The night of fun swiftly turning into another adventure. I cannot yet see real reasons behind all this, but it is high time I recall how to play cards before joining the other guests. I only wonder how big they consider big pays to be?
#TEXT   5
High society's distractions turn out to be too exquisite for me. I lost quite a sum and had to take my leave of shame. Well, I guess a parlor part of my life is gone for good.
#TEXT   6
A sweet night turned into some real drama. Betting ships and women - I  totally forgot how far high society can go.
Nevertheless, I won a war frigate of my new friend Angerran de Chievous. I also won a flute loaded with silver which our dear governor kind of forgot to sell to the Dutch. Finally, I won Marquise Julianne de Botot. From this moment I am a patron of a luxury, beautiful and well connected courtesan who once was a lover the most powerful man of New France - Count de Levy Vantadur. It's a complicated situation, even if we forget about an affection towards her shared by two men who I stripped of their ships tonight.
Oh and there is a matter of my duel against de Chievous. That bastard of Count de Levy Vantadur challenged me by publically accusing me of cheating. I should go to the governor and discuss terms, but first I should thank madam Botot for her hospitality. And to decide what to do with my... winnings.
#TEXT   7
De Chievous intend to put an end to our disagreements with a sword. The governor is terribly concerned over possible backfire. He put a lot of effort into persuading me not to kill the bastard and even assigned a couple of noble officers as my seconds. The duel will take place today, just outside the gates at ten o'clock in the evening. This is not great, even though Angerran will not be the first noble bastard to face me, he definitely knows how to hold his sword! It won't be an easy fight.
And now her! Now I start seeing how all of this looked like to her, especially after we had a fight on the street. She's got all reasons in the world to be mad with me. If I win that duel, we are bound to have a very long talk.
#TEXT   8
The bastard proved to be tough, but not tough enough. Same as with cards, once he realized he is losing, he dropped his mask and honor. He fled and we were attacked by a group of his thugs. Lucky I had those officers with me. I wouldn't had made it without them. I should see the governor and report that as soon as possible.
#TEXT   9
De Chievous struck me hard after all! I worried about a wrong person. The bastard didn't go for her but instead he captured his frigate, slaughtered my prize team and abducted my woman. I don't know if she yet lives but I will do whatever it takes to find her! I must learn about de Chievous whereabouts from the governor. This time I will not listen to his mumbling about 'consequences' and make sure his tongue is set to purpose!
#TEXT   10
Time is out. I will never see her again or hear about her fate. Fucking bastard knew where to strike me. I will live with this wound till the end of days.
#TEXT   11
My darkest concerns came true. Angerran de Chievous did abduct my woman and left a letter proposing to meet him at Guadeloupe in ten days. According to madam Botot, the governor will remain at his side meaning that I must be extremely cautious when dealing with the man. At least she yet lived! If he lays his hands on her I swear I tear Bass-Terre and its governor apart!
Damn me! I had no idea it was going to turn like this.
#TEXT   12
I can see the frigate in a harbor of Basse-Terre. Angerran doesn't care about hiding! But I can't fight him here. Even though I don't give a damn about what the governor thinks, a direct assault will put her in danger. The bastard might had hidden her elsewhere too. I have no other choice but to pay de Chievous a visit, hoping the governor will be reasonable enough.
#TEXT   13
No gunfight this time, but de Chievous cares only about the marquise de Botot. He would not be settled by any other ransom. He demands I hand her over to him in two weeks off cape Scotts Head. Like she is some precious trinket. I have no idea what to do about that. De Lyon believes Angerran to be a man of worth and even I persuaded him otherwise, our hands will still be tied. The bastard is certain of his position, certain he will get away with anything. No! Why would he have me to abduct Julianne Botot if he can do you himself? Because he can't. He fears something. I must see go to Port-au-Prince and talk this through with the marquise! 
#TEXT   14
My hopes proved false. Marquise knows nothing useful to help me to retrieve my woman. I can't take any more chances here. I will have to follow de Chievous instructions and pray for his sense of honor. So idiotic of me, right? I have no other option, but to sail to Dominica and I am sorry for those who will stand in my way.
#TEXT   15
I had to fight my way through, but made it in time. De Chievous ships is anchored right ahead. Time to get a longboat ready. The time has come.
#TEXT   16
Finally! She is back in my arms! All ended well, mostly. I don't know what will happen to madam Botot, but I don't regret the choice I made and would absolutely make the same choice again. I had more than a few revelations in the past weeks and now I know she is worth to me more than all the gold in the world. I will deal with all the backfire. Same old stuff, a bribe here, a favor there. In the end, I can always raise my black flag and sail to Isla Tesoro. I only wish I meet de Chievous again. We have got a score to settle...
#TEXT   17
This is surely getting impossible and overcomplicated. I met Baronet Cortney, who leave an impression of a man with an extreme official authority. He is looking for a lost currier vessel, the Regina. Lost somewhere deep in the territory of France, a trusted ally of Britain. The ship carried legendary black pearls, exactly like the pearl in the neckless, de Chievous gifted to Marquise Botot. He must had something to do with the Regina's disappearance, this is probably my only chance to nail him hard! I must investigate further. Jaques the Kind won't tell me a thing, but the Baronet can actually make him talk. Tomorrow evening, in the Marquise's house, I will know for sure. Not much of a choice I have got here really.
#TEXT   18
I missed a meeting with Baronet Cortney, thus missing my only chance to get off de Chievous's hook. I know you wouldn't like it, but I have only one choice. I must get you back at any cost.
#TEXT   18_1
I missed a meeting, thus missing my only chance to get off de Chievous's hook. I know you wouldn't like it, but I have only one choice. I must get you back at any cost.
#TEXT   19
Baronet Cortney is dead. My only chance to get off de Chievous's hook is dead with him. I know you wouldn't like it, but I have only one choice. I must get you back at any cost.
#TEXT   20
De Chievous is in deep and so am I. The story of the Regina and the stolen pearls she transported was all smoke and mirrors set by the Spanish themselves to sabotage British-French alliance. Baronet Cortney agreed to lend me a hand after we fought through an assassination attempt organized by Jaques Barbason. He will accompany me to Dominica where we will arrest de Chievous vessel. I just hope that Cortney is right and they will not try to resist. I am sorry for taking that risk, my dear, but I don't see the other way.
#TEXT   21
This is it, I guess. Baron Cortney arrested de Chievous' ship and now he is onto the man himself. I have no desire to see him again. From this moment, he is the State's problem, not mine. She is by my side again, she is alive and healthy, I couldn't hope for more! I love that woman and it's probably the right time to... Later, perhaps. We are together again and I am happy. I suppose I should thank Marquise Botot for help, however I am sure she'd understand if I don't show up.
#TEXT   22
I heard an interesting story from Bartolomeo the Portuguese who is currently hiding in St. Pierre under alias of captain Moreno. It appears that Angerran de Chievous had something to do with an attack at the British brigantine transporting rare pearls stolen by privateers from Spanish. He was selling pearls to Jaques Barbason in order to get enough cash for his future gambling with the governor. He also tried to impress Marquise Botot with a luxury necklace ornamented with a rarest black pearl. Brits must be furious to find out their most precious pearls stolen, considering how extremely rare and expensive black pearls are. However, that will never do as a firm evidence.
#TEXT   23
It's a poor plan but I don't see any way to return her without sacrificing madam Botot. I will have to risk it. While Bart the Portuguese will be conducting the exchange at Dominica, I myself will go to Antigua to somehow persuade British authorities to trust in my information. The bastard's frigate will probably make it from Dominica to Guadeloupe in three days, that's all the time I've got. My goal is make brits to suspend Angerran's vessel and search it through. The frigate's logs should have all the evidence they needed thanks to Angerran's pedantry. If it is a success, I am risking to turn this whole operation intro a massive political scandal. Alas, the bastards is leaving me with no other choice.
#TEXT   24
I had no idea of the real measure of British interest in this business. It is not even about the pearls. As far as I understand, the ship belonged to one of infamous trading agents of the Empire. Spies, as they also call them. Now brits are eager to kill and rampage, to do everything it takes in order to learn who ratted that ship out. Otherwise they are risking to lose their entire spy network. It appears that de Chievous had no idea what he was getting himself into. Nevertheless, I won't stop even if I could. To Basse-Terre now! Baronet Courtney is about to turn the island upside down if it gets him to Angerran, but most importantly, he actually got all authority to do so. 
You must already be in Martinique. Things coming apart and yet, I can not stop thinking  only of you. I managed to deliver the British investigator to Basse-Terre, hoping my guts were right and de Chievous didn't flee just yet. I should see the governor as soon as possible and make sure things go peacefully. Baronet Cortney will go all hard way on any witness, while I need a quite arrest of de Chievous, not a British Navy landing party in a French town.
#TEXT   25
It's over, I think. Sometimes we need to lose something before we can understand its value. Not everyone get a chance to return what they lost. I was a lucky one. That woman… I knew I loved her, but I am starting to understand her true value to me only now. In the meantime, Barth didn't wait for me and fled from Martinique. I don't even need to read his farewell letter to know what really happened here. Some things never changes - shadow games of Dukes and wars of Kings.
#TEXT   26

#QUEST LongHappy
Long and happily.
#TEXT   1
Abbot Benoit sent me a letter from my father and notarial papers.
So, my parent, through Benoit himself, has already learned about what had happened to Michel and, apparently, had time to put up with it. Damn it! I had to write to him myself!
And now he is determined to leave de Monper family on me - not only making me the heir of a lean estate and a well-deserved family name, but also marrying a suitable girl. What's next? Please, give a birth to the grandchildren?!
Even if Yvonne La Brigne was not be as stupid as a cork, neither she nor any of the Gascony or Bordeaux vineyards in addition would make me give up the love that I found here in the New World! I can’t imagine my life without @<sName>, but I can’t go against the will of my father expressed in this tone.
There is only one way out - to meet with a venerable parent, the heir must already be married. Married for love and all the rules.  And the gold that I earned here will reconcile my father with a lack of a dowry.
I don’t know if @<sName> was waiting for this or not, but I will offer her a hand and a heart. In all honesty, it should have been done a long time ago. Only first, I need to think about it carefully.
#TEXT   2_1
I’ll talk with @<sName> - the time has come. The New World is unbridledly beautiful and full of truly paradise towns, but our story will begin in the bay of Sabu Matila on Isla Tessoro. The fate of this island has changed our destinies, and will change again. We will take a couple of bottles of good wine, take a walk, admire the scenery, and I will offer @<sName> to become Madame de Monper from now and forever.
But first I have to go to Abbot Benoit to the church of Saint Pierre.
#TEXT   2_2
I’ll talk with @<sName> - the time has come. The New World is unbridledly beautiful and full of truly paradise towns, but our story will begin  at the Tortuga lighthouse. The story of freedom, military friendship, sincere tenderness and love. We will take a couple of bottles of good wine, take a walk, admire the scenery, and I will offer @<sName> to become Madame de Monper from now and forever.
But first I have to go to Abbot Benoit to the church of Saint Pierre.
#TEXT   2_3
I’ll talk with @<sName> - the time has come. The New World is unbridledly beautiful and full of truly paradise towns, but our story will begin in in Jamaica. In Portland Harbor, where a stale wind from Europe subsides and the Caribbean wind smelling of gunpowder and rum is born. We will take a couple of bottles of good wine, take a walk, admire the scenery, and I will offer @<sName> to become Madame de Monper from now and forever.
But first I have to go to Abbot Benoit to the church of Saint Pierre.
#TEXT   3
I need to talk with Abbot Benoit - I think he will agree to marry me and @<sName>.
I shouldn’t forget to talk with @<sName> about our friends to whom we will send an invitation to the celebration.
#TEXT 	4
Here are the first difficulties - Abbot Benoit went to negotiate with the Spanish clergy on church affairs, but his absence becomes too long and causes concern even for other priests. It is possible that the holy father got into trouble, so I have to hurry – I’m going in searches. In Santiago I may find out something about the meeting of the clergy, cause father Palotty, the prelate inquisitor, is one of the negotiators.
#TEXT   5
So, here is Santiago. I’m not sure that I will be welcomed guest in the Inquisition, so I’ll start with questions in the city. As far as I know, the meeting of the spiritual pastors of the two warring countries is official, which means they must be gossiped about at every corner.
#TEXT   6
I managed to find out that Abbot Benoit with his delegation is still in Santiago. Negotiations clearly dragged on, and the holy father in the evenings serves a prayer in the local church. This is my chance to speak with him without further questions and 'honorable guard'.
#TEXT   7
I have no time and desire to unravel the church intrigues of the Spaniards. Father Benoit will have to be relieved of his duties as an honored guest simply and radically. And the prelate inquisitor... well, this is not the first time that our interests do not coincide. The Lord teaches us humility not for nothing.
#TEXT	8
I rescued Abbot Benoit from Santiago. I don’t think that father-inquisitor has become a little warmer with me because of this story. Rather, exactly the opposite.
But the work has been done and it remains for me to deliver the abbot to Martinique.
#TEXT   9
She said 'yes'. Damn it, we've been together for so long, and I was worried like a young man on a first date. What this woman is doing to me?! But, I am in seventh heaven with happiness, and now, it remains to decide with the preparations for the wedding.
#TEXT   10
To avoid unnecessary complications, such as capturing the town by the Brethren of the Coast, me and @<sName> decided to divide the celebration into the official part - in the church in Martinique, and a friendly feast in Sharptown. @<sName> volunteered to organize a сelebration and invitations to Isla Tessoro. I need to take her there and grab: @<sGoods>
I hope this will be enough. However, if the drink is over - I can always go to the sea and ... Okay, I hope this will not come to that. But I have to talk with Father Benoit and choose the guests who will be present at the official part in the church.
#TEXT   10_1
Mary proposes to land the crew ashore on the wedding day and arrange a good celebration for them. That's a good idea, but I need to collect @<sGoods, so that sea wolves won't die of thirst and boredom. When I get everything I need, I'll need to go to the local tavern and give everything to the owner. Mary will come to agree with him beforehand.
#TEXT   11
I arranged a wedding in the church of Saint Pierre. It will take place exactly one month later so that everyone can arrive. So, I still have time to finish all the preparations - the guests will unlikely wait long.
#TEXT   12
It was not easy, but we did it. All supplies were purchased, all necessary bribes and amounts paid, guests received an invitation. It remains to wait for the scheduled day. And the desperate captain and adventurer Charles de Maure, will become the venerable and married Chevalier de Monper.
#TEXT   13
A month has passed, guests have probably arrived to Saint-Pierre. It's time to go to church on Martinique, at my wedding! @<sText>
#TEXT 	14
Well, the crucial moment has come - all guests have arrived, and I should go to the church to father Benoit and agree on the beginning of the service.
Frankly speaking, I would have easier to bear half a dozen boarding parties, but this day should have come, and I am grateful to fate that my chosen one is @<sName>, and not some 'worthy candidate' with a couple of vineyards per soul. Marriage for love is a rarity, and for mutual love is a rarity priceless.
Yes, I am happy, and my father will have to accept my choice.
#TEXT   15
The wedding is taking its course, I went around the guests, it is time to return to Jan and find out if help with the organization is needed.
#TEXT   16
he celebrating among friends turned into a bloody massacre. Jacques the Kindman seized the opportunity, gathered his strength and is trying once and for all to get rid of most of the barons of the Brethren. He offended Sharptown from land and from the sea. The landing group, making its way to the town through the catacombs, we noticed on time and were able to fight back. Swanson, Tyrax, and the rest went aboard, trying to hold back Barbason’s squadron, Hawk and I searched for Dannie and @<sName>. 
Angerran de Chievous himself is in alliance with Barbason,  - he led the strike group on land, intending to solve our ‘disagreements’ with me. Hawk and I found a bastard in the residence - he kept our wives at gunpoint, and @<sName1> covered them from shot and got a bullet. He remained alive by a miracle, but he’s very bad - he lost a lot of blood and without the help of Gino will unlikely manage to survive.
But where to look for Gino in Sharptown, which turned into a battlefield? There is a battle in the harbor and every minute is counted - the vessels of the barons only with watchmen on board fight with clearly superior forces. I should go to the sea as soon as possible and support them, until everyone is killed there.
#TEXT   16_1
The celebrating among friends turned into a bloody massacre. Jacques the Kindman seized the opportunity, gathered his strength and is trying once and for all to get rid of most of the barons of the Brethren. He offended Sharptown from land and from the sea. The landing group, making its way to the town through the catacombs, we noticed on time and were able to fight back. Swanson, Tyrax, and the rest went aboard, trying to hold back Barbason’s squadron, Hawk and I searched for Dannie and @<sName>. 
The scumbag nicknamed Dussak, one of the people of the Kindman, kept our wives at gunpoint, and @<sName1> covered them from shot and got a bullet. He remained alive by a miracle, but he’s very bad - he lost a lot of blood and without the help of Gino will unlikely manage to survive.
But where to look for Gino in Sharptown, which turned into a battlefield? There is a battle in the harbor and every minute is counted - the vessels of the barons only with watchmen on board fight with clearly superior forces. I should go to the sea as soon as possible and support them, until everyone is killed there.
#TEXT   17
In the tavern I found Barbason's mercenaries - they wanted to hide and wait out the the end of assault. It seems that before my appearance, they were going to break down the door of the room upstairs.
#TEXT	18
I found Gino - he was hiding in the tavern’s room, and if I hadn't come in time, it would have been ended up bad for him. I do hope that he will come just on time and @ <sName1> will survive. And I have to go to the sea - it seems that things are taking a very bad turn there.
#TEXT   19
I went to the sea - everything in the bay looks bad, but not everything is lost! However - I don’t see Tyrax's frigate, they say Jacques the Kindman boarded she half an hour ago. I hope he is still alive - Barbason is not one of those who immediately kills his enemies.
#TEXT   20
It seems that I am on time - the battle is clearly not in our favor, but nothing has been lost yet! It is time to tear out the teeth of this snake Barbason, with his head!
#TEXT   21
It was a really long and hard day, but it finally ended. The victory in the battle in the Privatir Bay is ours, but at what cost we got it! The coup attempt made by Jacques Barbason inflicted terrible damage to the Brethren. @<sText1>@<sText2>@<sText3>@<sText4>@<sText5>
